
He accelerated; so, many feet below, did Cho. He was winning, gaining on
the Snitch with every second -- then --

"Oh!" screamed Cho, pointing.

Distracted, Harry looked down.

Three dementors, three tall, black, hooded dementors, were looking up at
him.

He didn't stop to think. Plunging a hand down the neck of his robes, he
whipped out his wand and roared, "Expecto patronum!"

Something silver-white, something enormous, erupted from the end of his
wand. He knew it had shot directly at the dementors but didn't pause to
watch; his mind still miraculously clear, he looked ahead -- he was
nearly there. He stretched out the hand still grasping his wand and just
managed to close his fingers over the small, struggling Snitch.

Madam Hooch's whistle sounded. Harry turned around in midair and saw six
scarlet blurs bearing down on him; next moment, the whole team was
hugging him so hard he was nearly pulled off his broom. Down below he
could hear the roars of the Gryffindors in the crowd.

"That's my boy!" Wood kept yelling. Alicia, Angelina, and Katie had all
kissed Harry; Fred had him in a grip so tight Harry felt as though his
head would come off In complete disarray, the team managed to make its
way back to the ground. Harry got off his broom and looked up to see a
gaggle of Gryffindor supporters sprinting onto the field, Ron in the
lead. Before he knew it, he had been engulfed by the cheering crowd.

"Yes!" Ron yelled, yanking Harry's arm into the air. "Yes! Yes!"

"Well done, Harry!" said Percy, looking delighted. "Ten Galleons to me!
Must find Penelope, excuse me --"

"Good for you, Harry!" roared Seamus Finnigan.

"Ruddy brilliant!" boomed Hagrid over the heads of the milling
Gryffindors.

"That was quite some Patronus," said a voice in Harry's ear.

Harry turned around to see Professor Lupin, who looked both shaken and
pleased.

"The dementors didn't affect me at all!" Harry said excitedly. "I didn't
feel a thing!"

"That would be because they -- er -- weren't dementors," said Professor
Lupin. "Come and see -- "

He led Harry out of the crowd until they were able to see the edge of
the field.

"You gave Mr. Malfoy quite a fright," said Lupin.

Harry stared. Lying in a crumpled heap on the ground were Malfoy,
Crabbe, Goyle, and Marcus Flint, the Slytherin team Captain, all
struggling to remove themselves from long, black, hooded robes. It
looked as though Malfoy had been standing on Goyle's shoulders. Standing
over them, with an expression of the utmost fury on her face, was
Professor McGonagall.

"An unworthy trick!" she was shouting. "A low and cowardly attempt to
sabotage the Gryffindor Seeker! Detention for all of you, and fifty
points from Slytherin! I shall be speaking to Professor Dumbledore about
this, make no mistake! Ah, here he comes now!"

If anything could have set the seal on Gryffindor's victory, it was
this. Ron, who had fought his way through to Harry's side, doubled up
with laughter as they watched Malfoy fighting to extricate himself from
the robe, Goyle's head still stuck inside it.

"Come on, Harry!" said George, fighting his way over. "Party! Gryffindor
common room, now!"

"Right," said Harry, and feeling happier than he had in ages, he and the
rest of the team led the way, still in their scarlet robes, out of the
stadium and back up to the castle.

It felt as though they had already won the Quidditch Cup; the party went
on all day and well into the night. Fred and George Weasley disappeared
for a couple of hours and returned with armfuls of bottles of
butterbeer, pumpkin fizz, and several bags full of Honeydukes sweets.

"How did you do that?" squealed Angelina Johnson as George started
throwing Peppermint Toads into the crowd.

"With a little help from Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs," Fred
muttered in Harry's ear.

Only one person wasn't joining in the festivities. Hermione, incredibly,
was sitting in a corner, attempting to read an enormous book entitled
Home Life and Social Habits of British Muggles. Harry broke away from
the table where Fred and George had started juggling butterbeer bottles
and went over to her.

"Did you even come to the match?" he asked her.

"Of course I did," said Hermione in a strangely high-pitched voice, not
looking up. "And I'm very glad we won, and I think you did really well,
but I need to read this by Monday."

"Come on, Hermione, come and have some food," Harry said, looking over
at Ron and wondering whether he was in a good enough mood to bury the
hatchet.

"I can't, Harry. I've still got four hundred and twenty-two pages to
read!" said Hermione, now sounding slightly hysterical. "Anyway..." She
glanced over at Ron too. "He doesn't want me to join in."

There was no arguing with this, as Ron chose that moment to say loudly,
"If Scabbers hadn't just been eaten, he could have had some of those
Fudge Flies. He used to really like them --"

Hermione burst into tears. Before Harry could say or do anything, she
tucked the enormous book under her arm, and, still sobbing, ran toward
the staircase to the girls' dormitories and out of sight.

"Can't you give her a break?" Harry asked Ron quietly.

"No," said Ron flatly. "If she just acted like she was sorry -- but
she'll never admit she's wrong, Hermione. She's still acting like
Scabbers has gone on vacation or something."

The Gryffindor party ended only when Professor McGonagall turned up in
her tartan dressing gown and hair net at one in the morning, to insist
that they all go to bed. Harry and Ron climbed the stairs to their
dormitory, still discussing the match. At last, exhausted, Harry climbed
into bed, twitched the hangings of his four-poster shut to block out a
ray of moonlight, lay back, and felt himself almost instantly drifting
off to sleep....

He had a very strange dream. He was walking through a forest, his
Firebolt over his shoulder, following something silvery-white. It was
winding its way through the trees ahead, and he could only catch
glimpses of it between the leaves. Anxious to catch up with it, he sped
up, but as he moved faster, so did his quarry. Harry broke into a run,
and ahead he heard hooves gathering speed. Now he was running flat out,
and ahead he could hear galloping. Then he turned a corner into a
clearing and -

"AAARRGGHH! NOOO!"

Harry woke as suddenly as though he'd been hit in the face. Disoriented
in the total darkness, he fumbled with his hangings, he could hear
movements around him, and Seamus Finnigan's voice from the other side of
the room: "What's going on?"

Harry thought he heard the dormitory door slam. At last finding the
divide in his curtains, he ripped them back, and at the same moment,
Dean Thomas lit his lamp.

Ron was sitting up in bed, the hangings torn from one side, a look of
utmost terror on his face.

"Black! Sirius Black! With a knife!"

"What?"

"Here! Just now! Slashed the curtains! Woke me up!"

"You sure you weren't dreaming, Ron?" said Dean.

"Look at the curtains! I tell you, he was here!"

They all scrambled out of bed; Harry reached the dormitory door first,
and they sprinted back down the staircase. Doors opened behind them, and
sleepy voices called after them.

"Who shouted?"

"What're you doing?"

The common room was lit with the glow of the dying fire, still littered
with the debris from the party. It was deserted.

"Are you sure you weren't dreaming, Ron?"

"I'm telling you, I saw him!"

"What's all the noise?"

"Professor McGonagall told us to go to bed!"

A few of the girls had come down their staircase, pulling or, dressing
gowns and yawning. Boys, too, were reappearing.

"Excellent, are we carrying on?" said Fred Weasley brightly.

"Everyone back upstairs!" said Percy, hurrying into the common room and
pinning his Head Boy badge to his pajamas as he spoke.

"Perce -- Sirius Black!" said Ron faintly. "In our dormitory! With a
knife! Woke me up!"

The common room went very still.

"Nonsense!" said Percy, looking startled. "You had too much to eat, Ron
-- had a nightmare --"

"I'm telling you --"

"Now, really, enough's enough!"

Professor McGonagall was back. She slammed the portrait behind her as
she entered the common room and stared furiously around.

"I am delighted that Gryffindor won the match, but this is getting
ridiculous! Percy, I expected better of you!"

"I certainly didn't authorize this, Professor!" said Percy, puffing
himself up indignantly. "I was just telling them all to get back to bed!
My brother Ron here had a nightmare --"

"IT WASN'T A NIGHTMARE!" Ron yelled. "PROFESSOR, I WOKE UP, AND SIRIUS
BLACK WAS STANDING OVER ME, HOLDING A KNIFE!"

Professor McGonagall stared at him.

"Don't be ridiculous, Weasley, how could he possibly have gotten through
the portrait hole?"

"Ask him!" said Ron, pointing a shaking finger at the back of Sir
Cadogan's picture. "Ask him if he saw --"

Glaring suspiciously at Ron, Professor McGonagall pushed the Portrait
back open and went outside. The whole common room listened with bated
breath. "Sir Cadogan, did you just let a man enter Gryffindor Tower?"
"Certainly, good lady!" cried Sir Cadogan.

There was a stunned silence, both inside and outside the common room.

"You -- you did?" said Professor McGonagall. "But -- but the password!"

"He had 'em!" said Sir Cadogan proudly. "Had the whole week's, my lady!
Read 'em off a little piece of paper!"

Professor McGonagall pulled herself back through the portrait hole to
face the stunned crowd. She was white as chalk.

"Which person," she said, her voice shaking, "which abysmally foolish
person wrote down this week's passwords and left them lying around?"

There was utter silence, broken by the smallest of terrified squeaks.
Neville Longbottom, trembling from head to fluffy slippered toes, raised
his hand slowly into the air.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

SNAPE'S GRUDGE

No one in Gryffindor Tower slept that night. They knew that the castle
was being searched again, and the whole House stayed awake in the common
room, waiting to hear whether Black had been caught. Professor
McGonagall came back at dawn, to tell them that he had again escaped.

Throughout the day, everywhere they went they saw signs of tighter
security; Professor Flitwick could be seen teaching the front doors to
recognize a large picture of Sirius Black; Filch was suddenly bustling
up and down the corridors, boarding up everything from tiny cracks in
the walls to mouse holes. Sir Cadogan had been fired. His portrait had
been taken back to its lonely landing on the seventh floor, and the Fat
Lady was back. She had been expertly restored, but was still extremely
nervous, and had agreed to return to her job only on condition that she
was given extra protection. A bunch of surly security trolls had been
hired to guard her. They paced the corridor in a menacing group, talking
in grunts and comparing the size of their clubs.

Harry couldn't help noticing that the statue of the one-eyed witch on
the third floor remained unguarded and unblocked. It seemed that Fred
and George had been right in thinking that they -- and now Harry, Ron,
and Hermione -- were the only ones who knew about the hidden passageway
within it.

"D'you reckon we should tell someone?" Harry asked Ron.

"We know he's not coming in through Honeyduke's," said Ron dismissively.
"We'd've heard if the shop had been broken into."

Harry was glad Ron took this view. If the one-eyed witch was boarded up
too, he would never be able to go into Hogsmeade again.

Ron had become an instant celebrity. For the first time in his life,
people were paying more attention to him than to Harry, and it was clear
that Ron was rather enjoying the experience. Though still severely
shaken by the night's events, he was happy to tell anyone who asked what
had happened, with a wealth of detail.

"... I was asleep, and I heard this ripping noise, and I thought it was
in my dream, you know? But then there was this draft... I woke up and
one side of the hangings on my bed had been pulled down.... I rolled
over... and I saw him standing over me... like a skeleton, with loads of
filthy hair ... holding this great long knife, must've been twelve
inches... and he looked at me, and I looked at him, and then I yelled,
and he scampered.

"Why, though?" Ron added to Harry as the group of secondyear girls who
had been listening to his chilling tale departed. "Why did he run?"

Harry had been wondering the same thing. Why had Black, having got the
wrong bed, not silenced Ron and proceeded to Harry? Black had proved
twelve years ago that he didn't mind murdering innocent people, and this
time he had been facing five unarmed boys, four of whom were asleep.

"He must've known he'd have a job getting back out of the castle once
you'd yelled and woken people up," said Harry thoughtfully. "He'd've had
to kill the whole House to get back through the portrait hole... then he
would' ve met the teachers...."

Neville was in total disgrace. Professor McGonagall was so furious with
him she had banned him from all future Hogsmeade visits, given him a
detention, and forbidden anyone to give him the password into the tower.
Poor Neville was forced to wait. outside the common room every night for
somebody to let him in, while the security trolls leered unpleasantly at
him. None of these punishments, however, came close to matching the one
his grandmother had in store for him. Two days after Black's break-in,
she sent Neville the very worst thing a Hogwarts student could receive
over breakfast -- a Howler.

The school owls swooped into the Great Hall carrying the mail as usual,
and Neville choked as a huge barn owl landed in front of him, a scarlet
envelope clutched in its beak. Harry and Ron, who were sitting opposite
him, recognized the letter as a Howler at once -- Ron had got one from
his mother the year before.

"Run for it, Neville," Ron advised.

Neville didn't need telling twice. He seized the envelope, and holding
it before him like a bomb, sprinted out of the hall, while the Slytherin
table exploded with laughter at the sight of him. They heard the Howler
go off in the entrance hall -- Neville's grandmother's voice, magically
magnified to a hundred times its Usual volume, shrieking about how he
had brought shame on the whole family.

Harry was too busy feeling sorry for Neville to notice immediately that
he had a letter too. Hedwig got his attention by nipping him sharply on
the wrist.

"Ouch! Oh -- thanks, Hedwig."

Harry tore open the envelope while Hedwig helped herself to some of
Neville's cornflakes. The note inside said:

Dear Harry and Ron, How Abut having tea with me this afternoon 'round
six? I'll come collect you from the castle. WAIT FOR ME IN THE ENTRANCE
HALL; YOU'RE NOT ALLOWED OUT ON YOUR OWN. Cheers, Hagrid

"He probably wants to hear all about Black!" said Ron.

So at six o'clock that afternoon, Harry and Ron left Gryffindor Tower,
passed the security trolls at a run, and headed down to the entrance
hall.

Hagrid was already waiting for them.

"All right, Hagrid!" said Ron. "S'pose you want to hear about Saturday
night, do you?"

"I've already heard all abou' it," said Hagrid, opening the front doors
and leading them outside.

"Oh," said Ron, looking slightly put out.

The first thing they saw on entering Hagrid's cabin was Buckbeak, who
was stretched out on top of Hagrid's patchwork quilt, his enormous wings
folded tight to his body, enjoying a large plate of dead ferrets.
Averting his eyes from this unpleasant sight, Harry saw a gigantic,
hairy brown suit and a very horrible yellow-and-orange tie hanging from
the top of Hagrid's wardrobe door.

"What are they for, Hagrid?" said Harry.

"Buckbeaks case against the Committee fer the Disposal o' Dangerous
Creatures," said Hagrid. "This Friday. Him an' me'll be goin' down ter
London together. I've booked two beds on the Knight Bus...."

Harry felt a nasty pang of guilt. He had completely forgotten that
Buckbeak's trial was so near, and judging by the uneasy look on Ron's
face, he had too. They had also forgotten their promise about helping
him prepare Buckbeak's defense; the arrival of the Firebolt had driven
it clean out of their minds.

Hagrid poured them tea and offered them a plate of Bath buns but they
knew better than to accept; they had had too much experience with
Hagrid's cooking.

I got somethin' ter discuss with you two," said Hagrid, sitting himself
between them and looking uncharacteristically serious.

"What?" said Harry.

"Hermione," said Hagrid.

"What about her?" said Ron.

"She's in a righ' state, that's what. She's bin comin' down ter visit me
a lot since Chris'mas. Bin feelin' lonely. Firs' yeh weren' talking to
her because o' the Firebolt, now yer not talkin' to her because her cat
--"

"-- ate Scabbers!" Ron interjected angrily.

"Because her cat acted like all cats do," Hagrid continued doggedly.
"She's cried a fair few times, yeh know. Goin' through a rough time at
the moment. Bitten off more'n she can chew, if yeh ask me, all the work
she's tryin' ter do. Still found time ter help me with Buckbeak's case,
mind.... She's found some really good stuff fer me... reckon he'll stand
a good chance now..."

"Hagrid, we should've helped as well -- sorry --" Harry began awkwardly.

"I'm not blamin' yeh!" said Hagrid, waving Harry's apology aside. "Gawd
knows yeh've had enough ter be gettin' on with. I've seen yeh practicin'
Quidditch ev'ry hour o' the day an' night -- but I gotta tell yeh, I
thought you two'd value yer friend more'n broomsticks or rats. Tha's
all."

Harry and Ron exchanged uncomfortable looks.

"Really upset, she was, when Black nearly stabbed yeh, Ron. She's got
her heart in the right place, Hermione has, an' you two not talkin' to
her --"

"If she'd just get rid of that cat, I'd speak to her again!" Ron said
angrily. "But she's still sticking up for it! It's a maniac, and she
won't hear a word against it!"

"Ah, well, people can be a bit stupid abou' their pets," said Hagrid
wisely. Behind him, Buckbeak spat a few ferret bones onto Hagrid's
pillow.

They spent the rest of their visit discussing Gryffindor's improved
chances for the Quidditch Cup. At nine o'clock, Hagrid walked them back
up to the castle.

A large group of people was bunched around the bulletin board when they
returned to the common room.

"Hogsmeade, next weekend!" said Ron, craning over the heads to read the
new notice. "What d'you reckon?" he added quietly to Harry as they went
to sit down.

"Well, Filch hasn't done anything about the passage into Honeydukes...."
Harry said, even more quietly.

"Harry!" said a voice in his right ear. Harry started and looked around
at Hermione, who was sitting at the table right behind them and clearing
a space in the wall of books that had been hiding her.

"Harry, if you go into Hogsmeade again... I'll tell Professor McGonagall
about that map!" said Hermione.

"Can you hear someone talking, Harry?" growled Ron, not looking at
Hermione.

"Ron, how can you let him go with you? After what Sirius Black nearly
did to you! I mean it, I'll tell --"

"So now you're trying to get Harry expelled!" said Ron furiously.
"Haven't you done enough damage this year?"

Hermione opened her mouth to respond, but with a soft hiss, Crookshanks
leapt onto her lap. Hermione took one frightened look at the expression
on Ron's face, gathered up Crookshanks, and hurried away toward the
girls' dormitories.

"So how about it?" Ron said to Harry as though there had been no
interruption. "Come on, last time we went you didn't see anything. You
haven't even been inside Zonko's yet!"

Harry looked around to check that Hermione was well out of earshot.

"Okay," he said. "But I'm taking the Invisibility Cloak this time."

On Saturday morning, Harry packed his Invisibility Cloak in his bag,
slipped the Marauder's Map into his pocket, and went down to breakfast
with everyone else. Hermione kept shooting suspicious looks down the
table at him, but he avoided her eye and was careful to let her see him
walking back up the marble staircase in the entrance hall as everybody
else proceeded to the front doors.

"'Bye!" Harry called to Ron. "See you when you get back!"

Ron grinned and winked.

Harry hurried up to the third floor, slipping the Marauder's Map out of
his pocket as he went. Crouching behind the one-eyed witch, he smoothed
it out. A tiny dot was moving in his direction. Harry squinted at it.
The minuscule writing next to it read Neville Longbottom.

Harry quickly pulled out his wand, muttered, "Dissendium!" and shoved
his bag into the statue, but before he could climb in himself, Neville
came around the corner.

"Harry! I forgot you weren't going to Hogsmeade either!"

"Hi, Neville," said Harry, moving swiftly away from the statue and
pushing the map back into his pocket. "What are you up to?"

"Nothing," shrugged Neville. "Want a game of Exploding Snap?"

"Er -- not now -- I was going to go to the library and do that vampire
essay for Lupin --"

"I'll come with you!" said Neville brightly. I haven't done it either!"

"Er -- hang on -- yeah, I forgot, I finished it last night!"

"Great, you can help me!" said Neville, his round face anxious. "I don't
understand that thing about the garlic at all -- do they have to eat it,
or --"

He broke off with a small gasp, looking over Harry's shoulder.

It was Snape. Neville took a quick step behind Harry.

"And what are you two doing here?" said Snape, coming to a halt and
looking from one to the other. "An odd place to meet --"

To Harry's immense disquiet, Snape's black eyes flicked to the doorways
on either side of them, and then to the one-eyed witch.

"We're not -- meeting here," said Harry. "We just -- met here."

"Indeed?" said Snape. "You have a habit of turning up in unexpected
places, Potter, and you are very rarely there for no good reason.... I
suggest the pair of you return to Gryffindor Tower, where you belong."

Harry and Neville set off without another word. As they turned the
corner, Harry looked back. Snape was running one of his hands over the
one-eyed witch's head, examining it closely.

Harry managed to shake Neville off at the Fat Lady by telling him the
password, then pretending he'd left his vampire essay in the library and
doubling back. Once out of sight of the security trolls, he pulled out
the map again and held it close to his nose.

The third floor corridor seemed to be deserted. Harry scanned the map
carefully and saw, with a leap of relief, that the tiny dot labeled
Severus Snape was now back in its office.

He sprinted back to the one-eyed witch, opened her hump, heaved himself
inside, and slid down to meet his bag at the bottom of the stone chute.
He wiped the Marauder's Map blank again, then set off at a run.

Harry, completely hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, emerged into
the sunlight outside Honeydukes and prodded Ron in the back.

It's me," he muttered.

"What kept you?" Ron hissed.

"Snape was hanging around."

They set off up the High Street.

"Where are you?" Ron kept muttering out of the corner of his mouth. "Are
you still there? This feels weird...."

They went to the post office; Ron pretended to be checking the price of
an owl to Bill in Egypt so that Harry could have a good look around. The
owls sat hooting softly down at him, at least three hundred of them;
from Great Grays right down to tiny little Scops owls ("Local Deliveries
Only"), which were so small they could have sat in the palm of Harry's
hand.

Then they visited Zonko's, which was so packed with students Harry had
to exercise great care not to tread on anyone and cause a panic. There
were jokes and tricks to fulfill even Fred's and George's wildest
dreams; Harry gave Ron whispered orders and passed him some gold from
under the cloak. They left Zonko's with their money bags considerably
lighter than they had been on entering, but their pockets bulging with
Dungbombs, Hiccup Sweets, Frog Spawn Soap, and a Nose-Biting Teacup
apiece.

The day was fine and breezy, and neither of them felt like staying
indoors, so they walked past the Three Broomsticks and climbed a slope
to visit the Shrieking Shack, the most haunted dwelling in Britain. It
stood a little way above the rest of the village, and even in daylight
was slightly creepy, with its boarded windows and dank overgrown garden.

"Even the Hogwarts ghosts avoid it," said Ron as they leaned on the
fence, looking up at it. "I asked Nearly Headless Nick... he says he's
heard a very rough crowd lives here. No one can get in. Fred and George
tried, obviously, but all the entrances are sealed shut...."

Harry, feeling hot from their climb, was just considering taking off the
cloak for a few minutes when they heard voices nearby. Someone was
climbing toward the house from the other side of the hill; moments
later, Malfoy had appeared, followed closely by Crabbe and Goyle. Malfoy
was speaking.

"... should have an owl from Father any time now. He had to go to the
hearing to tell them about my arm... about how I couldn't use it for
three months...."

Crabbe and Goyle sniggered.

"I really wish I could hear that great hairy moron trying to defend
himself... 'There's no 'arm in 'im, 'onest that hippogriff's as good as
dead --"

Malfoy suddenly caught sight of Ron. His pale face split in a malevolent
grin.

"What are you doing, Weasley?"

Malfoy looked up at the crumbling house behind Ron.

"Suppose You'd love to live here, wouldn't you, Weasley? Dreaming about
having your own bedroom? I heard your family all sleep in one room -- is
that true?"

Harry seized the back of Ron's robes to stop him from leaping on Malfoy.
"Leave him to me," he hissed in Ron's ear.

The opportunity was too perfect to miss. Harry crept silently around
behind Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, bent down, and scooped a large handful
of mud out of the path.

"We were just discussing your friend Hagrid," Malfoy said to Ron. "Just
trying to imagine what he's saying to the Committee for the Disposal of
Dangerous Creatures. D'you think he'll cry when they cut off his
hippogriff's

SPLAT.

Malfoy's head jerked forward as the mud hit him; his silverblond hair
was suddenly dripping in muck.

"What the --?"

Ron had to hold onto the fence to keep himself standing, he was laughing
so hard. Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle spun stupidly on the spot, staring
wildly around, Malfoy trying to wipe his hair clean.

"What was that? 'Who did that?"

"Very haunted up here, isn't it?" said Ron, with the air of one
commenting on the weather.

Crabbe and Goyle were looking scared. Their bulging muscles were no use
against ghosts. Malfoy was staring madly around at the deserted
landscape.

Harry sneaked along the path, where a particularly sloppy puddle yielded
some foul-smelling, green sludge.

SPLATTER.

Crabbe and Goyle caught some this time. Goyle hopped furiously on the
spot, trying to rub it out of his small, dull eyes.

"It came from over there!" said Malfoy, wiping his face, and staring at
a spot some six feet to the left of Harry.

Crabbe blundered forward, his long arms outstretched like a zombie.
Harry dodged around him, picked up a stick, and lobbed it at Crabbe's
back. Harry doubled up with silent laughter as Crabbe did a kind of
pirouette in midair, trying to see who had thrown it. As Ron was the
only person Crabbe could see, it was Ron he started toward, but Harry
stuck out his leg. Crabbe stumbled -- and his huge, flat foot caught the
hem of Harry's cloak. Harry felt a great tug, then the cloak slid off
his face.

For a split second, Malfoy stared at him.

"AAARGH!" he yelled, pointing at Harry's head. Then he turned tail and
ran, at breakneck speed, back down the hill, Crabbe and Goyle behind
him.

Harry tugged the cloak up again, but the damage was done.

"Harry!" Ron said, stumbling forward and staring hopelessly at the point
where Harry had disappeared, "you'd better run for it! If Malfoy tells
anyone -- you'd better get back to the castle, quick --" "See you
later," said Harry, and without another word, he tore back down the path
toward Hogsmeade.

Would Malfoy believe what he had seen? Would anyone believe

Malfoy? Nobody knew about the Invisibility Cloak -- nobody except
Dumbledore. Harry's stomach turned over -- Dumbledore would know exactly
what had happened, if Malfoy said any- thing --

Back into Honeydukes, back down the cellar steps, across the stone
floor, through the trapdoor -- Harry pulled off the cloak, tucked it
under his arm, and ran, flat out, along the passage.... Malfoy would get
back first... how long would it take him to find a teacher? Panting, a
sharp pain in his side, Harry didn't slow down until he reached the
stone slide. He would have to leave the cloak where it was, it was too
much of a giveaway in case Malfoy had tipped off a teacher -- he hid it
in a shadowy corner, then started to climb, fast as he could, his sweaty
hands slipping on the sides of the chute. He reached the inside of the
witch's hump, tapped it with his wand, stuck his head through, and
hoisted himself out; the hump closed, and just as Harry jumped out from
behind the statue, he heard quick footsteps approaching.

It was Snape. He approached Harry at a swift walk, his black robes
swishing, then stopped in front of him.

"So," he said.

There was a look of surpressed triumph about him. Harry tried to look
innocent, all too aware of his sweaty face and his muddy hands, which he
quickly hid in his pockets.

"Come with me, Potter," said Snape.

Harry followed him downstairs, trying to wipe his hands clean on the
inside of his robes without Snape noticing. They walked down the stairs
to the dungeons and then into Snape's office.

Harry had been in here only once before, and he had been in very serious
trouble then too. Snape had aquired a few more slimy horrible things in
jars since last time, all standing on shelves behind his desk, glinting
in the firelight and adding to the threatening atmosphere.

"Sit," said Snape.

Harry sat. Snape, however, remained, standing.

"Mr. Malfoy has just been to see me with a strange story, Potter," said
Snape.

Harry didn't say anything.

"He tells me that he was up by the Shrieking Shack when he ran into
Weasley -- apparently alone."

Still, Harry didn't speak.

"Mr. Malfoy states that he was standing talking to Weasley, when a large
amount of mud hit him in the back of the head. How do you think that
could have happened?"

Harry tried to look mildly surprised.

"I don't know, Professor."

Snape's eyes were boring into Harry's. It was exactly like trying to
stare down a hippogriff. Harry tried hard not to blink.

"Mr. Malfoy then saw an extraordinary apparition. Can you imagine what
it might have been, Potter?"

"No," said Harry, now trying to sound innocently curious.

"It was your head, Potter. Floating in midair."

There was a long silence.

"Maybe he'd better go to Madam Pomfrey," said Harry. "If he's seeing
things like --"

"What would your head have been doing in Hogsmeade, Potter?" said Snape
softly. "Your head is not allowed in Hogsmeade. No part of your body has
permission to be in Hogsmeade."

"I know that," said Harry, striving to keep his face free of guilt or
fear. "It sounds like Malfoy's having hallucin --"

"Malfoy is not having hallucinations," snarled Snape, and he bent down,
a hand on each arm of Harry's chair, so that their faces were a foot
apart. "If your head was in Hogsmeade, so was the rest of you."

"I've been up in Gryffindor Tower," said Harry. "Like you told --" "Can
anyone confirm that?"

Harry didn't say anything. Snape's thin mouth curled into a horrible
smile.

"So," he said, straightening up again. "Everyone from the Minister of
Magic downward has been trying to keep famous Harry Potter safe from
Sirius Black. But famous Harry Potter is a law unto himself Let the
ordinary people worry about his safety! Famous Harry Potter goes where
he wants to, with no thought for the consequences.

Harry stayed silent. Snape was trying to provoke him into telling the
truth. He wasn't going to do it. Snape had no proof -- yet.

"How extraordinarily like your father you are, Potter," Snape said
suddenly, his eyes glinting. "He too was exceedingly arrogant. A small
amount of talent on the Quidditch field made him think he was a cut
above the rest of us too. Strutting around the place with his friends
and admirers... The resemblance between you is uncanny."

"My dad didn't strut," said Harry, before he could stop himself. "And
neither do I."

"Your father didn't set much store by rules either," Snape went on,
pressing his advantage, his thin face full of malice. "Rules were for
lesser mortals, not Quidditch Cup-winners. His head was so swollen --"

"SHUT UP!"

Harry was suddenly on his feet. Rage such as he had not felt since his
last night in Privet Drive was coursing through him. He didn't care that
Snape's face had gone rigid, the black eyes flashing dangerously.

"What did you say to me, Potter?"

"I told you to shut up about my dad!" Harry yelled. I know the truth,
all right? He saved your life! Dumbledore told me! You wouldn't even be
here if it wasn't for my dad!"

Snape's sallow skin had gone the color of sour milk.

"And did the headmaster tell you the circumstances in which your father
saved my life?" he whispered. "Or did he consider the details too
unpleasant for precious Potter's delicate ears?"

Harry bit his lip. He didn't know what had happened and didn't want to
admit it -- but Snape seemed to have guessed the truth.

I would hate for you to run away with a false idea of your father,
Potter," he said, a terrible grin twisting his face. "Have you been
imagining some act of glorious heroism? Then let me correct you -- your
saintly father and his friends played a highly amusing joke on me that
would have resulted in my death if your father hadn't got cold feet at
the last moment. There was nothing brave about what he did. He was
saving his own skin as much as mine. Had their joke succeeded, he would
have been expelled from Hogwarts."

Snape's uneven, yellowish teeth were bared.

"Turn out your pockets, Potter!" he spat suddenly.

Harry didn't move. There was a pounding in his ears.

"Turn out your pockets, or we go straight to the headmaster! Pull them
out, Potter!"

Cold with dread, Harry slowly pulled out the bag of Zonko's tricks and
the Marauder's Map.

Snap picked up the Zonko's bag.

"Ron gave them to me," said Harry, praying he'd get a chance to tip Ron
off before Snape saw him. "He -brought them back from Hogsmeade last
time --"

"Indeed? And you've been carrying them around ever since? How very
touching... and what is this?"

Snape had picked up the map. Harry tried with all his might to keep his
face impassive.

"Spare bit of parchment," he said with a shrug.

Snape turned it over, his eyes on Harry.

"Surely you don't need such a very old piece of parchment?" he said.
"Why don't I just -- throw this away?"

His hand moved toward the fire.

"No!" Harry said quickly.

"So!" said Snape, his long nostrils quivering. "Is this another
treasured gift from Mr. Weasley? Or is it -- something else? A letter,
perhaps, written in invisible ink? Or -- instructions to get into
Hogsmeade without passing the dementors?"

Harry blinked. Snape's eyes gleamed.

"Let me see, let me see...." he muttered, taking out his wand and
smoothing the map out on his desk. "Reveal your secret!" he said,
touching the wand to the parchment.

Nothing happened. Harry clenched his hands to stop them from shaking.

"Show yourself!" Snape said, tapping the map sharply.

It stayed blank. Harry was taking deep, calming breaths.

"Professor Severus Snape, master of this school, commands you to yield
the information you conceal!" Snape said, hitting the map with his wand.

As though an invisible hand were writing upon it, words appeared on the
smooth surface of the map.

Mooney presents his compliments to Professor Snape, and begs him to keep
his abnormally large nose out of other people's business."

Snape froze. Harry stared, dumbstruck, at the message. But the map
didn't stop there. More writing was appearing beneath the first.

"Mr. Prongs agrees with Mr. Moony and would like to add that Professor
Snape is an ugle git."

It would have been very funny if the situation hadn't been so serious.
And there was more....

"Mr. Padfoot would like to register his astonishment that an idiot like
that ever became a professor."

Harry closed his eyes in horror. When he'd opened them, the map had had
its last word.

"Mr. Wormtail bids Professor Snape good day, and advises him to wash his
hair , the slimeball."

Harry waited for the blow to fall.

"So..." said Snape softly. "We'll see about this...."

He strode across to his fire, seized a fistful of glittering powder from
a jar on the fireplace, and threw it into the flames.

"Lupin!" Snape called into the fire. "I want a word!"

Utterly bewildered, Harry stared at the fire. A large shape had appeared
in it, revolving very fast. Seconds later, Professor Lupin was
clambering out of the fireplace, brushing ash off his shabby robes.

"You called, Severus?" said Lupin mildly.

"I certainly did," said Snape, his face contorted with fury as he strode
back to his desk. "I have just asked Potter to empty his pockets. He was
carrying this."

Snape pointed at the parchment, on which the words of Messrs. Moony,
Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs were still shining. An odd, closed
expression appeared on Lupin's face.

"Well?" said Snape.

Lupin continued to stare at the map. Harry had the impression that Lupin
was doing some very quick thinking.

"Well?" said Snape again. "This parchment is plainly full of Dark Magic.
This is supposed to be your area of expertise, Lupin. Where do you
imagine Potter got such a thing?"

Lupin looked up and, by the merest half-glance in Harry's direction,
warned him not to interrupt.

"Full of Dark Magic?" he repeated mildly. "Do you really think so,
Severus? It looks to me as though it is merely a piece of parchment that
insults anybody who reads it. Childish, but surely not dangerous? I
imagine Harry got it from a joke shop --"

"Indeed?" said Snape. His jaw had gone rigid with anger. "You think a
joke shop could supply him with such a thing? You don't think it more
likely that he got it directly from the manufacturers?"

Harry didn't understand what Snape was talking about. Nor, apparently,
did Lupin.

"You mean, by Mr. Wormtail or one of these people?" he said. "Harry, do
you know any of these men?"

"No," said Harry quickly.

"You see, Severus?" said Lupin, turning back to Snape. "It looks like a
Zonko product to me --"

Right on cue, Ron came bursting into the office. He was completely out
of breath, and stopped just short of Snape's desk, clutching the stitch
in his chest and trying to speak.

"I -- gave -- Harry -- that -- stuff," he choked. "Bought -- it... in
Zonko's... ages -- ago..."

"Well!" said Lupin, clapping his hands together and looking around
cheerfully. "That seems to clear that up! Severus, I'll take this back,
shall I?" He folded the map and tucked it inside his robes. "Harry, Ron,
come with me, I need a word about my vampire essay -- excuse us, Severus
--"

Harry didn't dare look at Snape as they left his office. He. Ron, and
Lupin walked all the way back into the entrance hall before speaking.
Then Harry turned to Lupin.

"Professor, I --"

"I don't want to hear explanations," said Lupin shortly. He glanced
around the empty entrance hall and lowered his voice. "I happen to know
that this map was confiscated by Mr. Filch many years ago. Yes, I know
it' s a map," he said as Harry and Ron looked amazed. "I don't want to
know how it fell into your possession. I am, however, astounded that you
didn't hand it in. Particularly after what happened the last time a
student left information about the castle lying around. And I can't let
you have it back, Harry."

Harry had expected that, and was too keen for explanations to protest.

"Why did Snape think I'd got it from the manufacturers?"

"Because...," Lupin hesitated, "because these mapmakers would have
wanted to lure you out of school. They'd think it extremely
entertaining."

"Do you know them?" said Harry, impressed.

"We've met," he said shortly. He was looking at Harry more seriously
than ever before.

"Don't expect me to cover up for you again, Harry. I cannot make you
take Sirius Black seriously. But I would have thought that what you have
heard when the dementors draw near you would have had more of an effect
on you. Your parents gave their lives to keep you alive, Harry. A poor
way to repay them -- gambling their sacrifice for a bag of magic
tricks."

He walked away, leaving Harry feeling worse by far than he had at any
point in Snape's office. Slowly, he and Ron mounted the marble
staircase. As Harry passed the one-eyed witch, he remembered the
Invisibility Cloak -- it was still down there, but he didn't dare go and
get it.

"It's my fault," said Ron abruptly. "I persuaded you to go. Lupin's
right, it was stupid, we shouldn't've done it --"

He broke off; they reached the corridor where the security trolls were
pacing, and Hermione was walking toward them. One look at her face
convinced Harry that she had heard what had happened. His heart
plummeted -- had she told Professor McGonagall?

"Come to have a good gloat?" said Ron savagely as she stopped in front
of them. "Or have you just been to tell on us?"

"No," said Hermione. She was holding a letter in her hands and her lip
was trembling. "I just thought you ought to know... Hagrid lost his
case. Buckbeak is going to be executed."

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

THE QUIDDITCH FINAL

He sent me this," Hermione said, holding out the letter.

Harry took it. The parchment was damp, and enormous teardrops had
smudged the ink so badly in places that it was very difficult to read.

Dear Hermione, We lost. I'm allowed to bring him back to Hogwarts.
Execution date to be fixed. Beaky has enjoyed London. I won't forget all
the help you gave us.

Hagrid

"They can't do this," said Harry. "They can't. Buckbeak isn't
dangerous."

"Malfoy's dad's frightened the Committee into it," said Hermione, wiping
her eyes. "You know what he's like. They're a bunch of doddery old
fools, and they were scared. There'll be an appeal, though, there always
is. Only I can't see any hope.... Nothing will have changed."

"Yeah, it will," said Ron fiercely. "You won't have to do all the work
alone this time, Hermione. I'll help."

"Oh, Ron!"

Hermione flung her arms around Ron's neck and broke down completely.
Ron, looking quite terrified, patted her very awkwardly on the top of
the head. Finally, Hermione drew away.

"Ron, I'm really, really sorry about Scabbers..." she sobbed.

"Oh -- well -- he was old," said Ron, looking thoroughly relieved that
she had let go of him. "And he was a bit useless. You never know, Mum
and Dad might get me an owl now."

The safety measures imposed on the students since Black's second
break-in made it impossible for Harry, Ron, and Hermione to go and visit
Hagrid in the evenings. Their only chance of talking to him was during
Care of Magical Creatures lessons.

He seemed numb with shock at the verdict.

"S'all my fault. Got all tongue-tied. They was all sittin' there in
black robes an' I kep' droppin' me notes and forgettin' all them dates
yeh looked up fer me, Hermione. An' then Lucius Malfoy stood up an' said
his bit, and the Committee jus' did exac'ly what he told 'em...."

"There's still the appeal!" said Ron fiercely. "Don't give up Yet, we're
working on it!"

They were walking back up to the castle with the rest of the class.
Ahead they could see Malfoy, who was walking with Crabbe and Goyle, and
kept looking back, laughing derisively.

"S'no good, Ron," said Hagrid sadly as they reached the castle steps.
"That Committee's in Lucius Malfoy's pocket. I'm jus' gonna make sure
the rest o' Beaky's time is the happiest he's ever had. I owe him
that...."

Hagrid turned around and hurried back toward his cabin, his face buried
in his handkerchief.

"Look at him blubber!"

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had been standing just inside the castle
doors, listening.

"Have you ever seen anything quite as pathetic?" said Malfoy. "And he's
supposed to be our teacher!"

Harry and Ron both made furious moves toward Malfoy, but Hermione got
there first -- SMACK!

She had slapped Malfoy across the face with all the strength she could
muster. Malfoy staggered. Harry, Ron, Crabbe, and Goyle stood
flabbergasted as Hermione raised her hand again.

"Don't you dare call Hagrid pathetic, you foul -- you evil --"

"Hermione!" said Ron weakly, and he tried to grab her hand as she swung
it back.

"Get off, Ron!"

Hermione pulled out her wand. Malfoy stepped backward. Crabbe and Goyle
looked at him for instructions, thoroughly bewildered.

"C'mon," Malfoy muttered, and in a moment, all three of them had
disappeared into the passageway to the dungeons.

"Hermione!" Ron said again, sounding both stunned and irnpressed.

"Harry, you'd better beat him in the Quidditch final!" Hermione said
shrilly. "You just better had, because I can't stand it if Slytherin
wins!"

"We're due in Charms," said Ron, still goggling at Hermione. "We'd
better go."

They hurried up the marble staircase toward Professor Flitwick's
classroom.

"You're late, boys!" said Professor Flitwick reprovingly as Harry opened
the classroom door. "Come along, quickly, wands out, we're experimenting
with Cheering Charms today, we've already divided into pairs --"

Harry and Ron hurried to a desk at the back and opened their bags. Ron
looked behind him.

"Where's Hermione gone?"

Harry looked around too. Hermione hadn't entered the classroom, yet
Harry knew she had been right next to him when he had opened the door.

"That's weird," said Harry, staring at Ron. "Maybe -- maybe she went to
the bathroom or something?"

But Hermione didn't turn up all lesson.

"She could've done with a Cheering Charm on her too," said Ron as the
class left for lunch, all grinning broadly -- the Cheering Charms had
left them with a feeling of great contentment.

Hermione wasn't at lunch either. By the time they had finished their
apple pie, the after-effects of the Cheering Charms were wearing off,
and Harry and Ron had started to get slightly worried.

"You don't think Malfoy did something to her?" Ron said anxiously as
they hurried upstairs toward Gryffindor Tower.

They passed the security trolls, gave the Fat Lady the password
("Flibbertigibbet"), and scrambled through the portrait hole into the
common room.

Hermione was sitting at a table, fast asleep, her head resting on an
open Arithmancy book. They went to sit down on either side of her. Harry
prodded her awake.

"Wh -- what?" said Hermione, waking with a start and staring wildly
around. "Is it time to go? W -- which lesson have we got now?"

"Divination, but it's not for another twenty minutes," said Harry.
"Hermione, why didn't you come to Charms?"

"What? Oh no!" Hermione squeaked. "I forgot to go to Charms!"

"But how could you forget?" said Harry. "You were with us till we were
right outside the classroom!"

"I don't believe it!" Hermione wailed. "Was Professor Flitwick angry?
Oh, it was Malfoy, I was thinking about him and I lost track of things!"

"You know what, Hermione?" said Ron, looking down at the enormous
Arithmancy book Hermione had been using as a pillow. "I reckon you're
cracking up. You're trying to do too much."

"No, I'm not!" said Hermione, brushing her hair out of her eyes and
staring hopelessly around for her bag. "I just made a mistake, that's
all! I'd better go and see Professor Flitwick and say sorry... I'll see
you in Divination!"

Hermione joined them at the foot of the ladder to Professor Trelawneys
classroom twenty minutes later, looking extremely harrassed.

"I can't believe I missed Cheering Charms! And I bet they come up in our
exams; Professor Flitwick hinted they might!"

Together they climbed the ladder into the dim, stifling tower room.
Glowing on every little table was a crystal ball full of pearly white
mist. Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat down together at the same rickety
table.

"I thought we weren't starting crystal balls until next term," Ron
muttered, casting a wary eye around for Professor Trelawney, in case she
was lurking nearby.

"Don't complain, this means we've finished palmistry," Harry muttered
back. "I was getting sick of her flinching every time she looked at my
hands."

"Good day to you!" said the familiar, misty voice, and Professor
Trelawney made her usual dramatic entrance out of the shadows. Parvati
and Lavender quivered with excitement, their faces lit by the milky glow
of their crystal ball.

"I have decided to introduce the crystal ball a little earlier than I
had planned," said Professor Trelawney, sitting with her back to the
fire and gazing around. "The fates have informed me that your
examination in June will concern the Orb, and I am anxious to give you
sufficient practice."

Hermione snorted.

"Well, honestly... 'the fates have informed her' who sets the exam? She
does! What an amazing prediction!" she said, not troubling to keep her
voice low. Harry and Ron choked back laughs.

It was hard to tell whether Professor Trelawney had heard them as her
face was hidden in shadow. She continued, however, as though she had
not.

"Crystal gazing is a particularly refined art," she said dreamily. "I do
not expect any of you to See when first you peer into the Orb's infinite
depths. We shall start by practicing relaxing the conscious mind and
external eyes" -- Ron began to snigger uncontrollably and had to stuff
his fist in his mouth to stifle the noise -- "so as to clear the Inner
Eye and the superconscious. Perhaps, if we are lucky, some of you will
see before the end of the class."

And so they began. Harry, at least, felt extremely foolish, staring
blankly at the crystal ball, trying to keep his mind empty when thoughts
such as "this is stupid" kept drifting across it. It didn't help that
Ron kept breaking into silent giggles and Hermione kept tutting.

"Seen anything yet?" Harry asked them after a quarter of an hour's quiet
crystal gazing.

"Yeah, there's a burn on this table," said Ron, pointing. "Someone's
spilled their candle."

"This is such a waste of time," Hermione hissed. "I could be practicing
something useful. I could be catching up on Cheering Charms --"

Professor Trelawney rustled past.

"Would anyone like me to help them interpret the shadowy portents within
their Orb?" she murmured over the clinking of her bangles.

I don't need help," Ron whispered. "It's obvious what this means.
There's going to be loads of fog tonight."

Both Harry and Hermione burst out laughing.

"Now, really!" said Professor Trelawney as everyone's heads turned in
their direction. Parvati and Lavender were looking scandalized. "You are
disturbing the clairvoyant vibrations!" She approached their table and
peered into their crystal ball. Harry felt his heart sinking. He was
sure he knew what was coming --

"There is something here!" Professor Trelawney whispered, lowerng her
face to the ball, so that it was reflected twice in her huge glasses.
"Something moving... but what is it?"

Harry was prepared to bet everything he owned, Including his Firebolt,
that it wasn't good news, whatever it was. And sure enough --

"My dear Professor Trelawney breathed, gazing up at Harry. "It is here,
plainer than ever before... my dear, stalking toward you, growing ever
closer... the Gr --"

"Oh, for goodness' sake!" said Hermione loudly. "Not that ridiculous
Grim again!"

Professor Trelawney raised her enormous eyes to Hermione's face. Parvati
whispered something to Lavender, and they both glared at Hermione too.
Professor Trelawney stood up, surveying Hermione with unmistakable
anger.

"I am sorry to say that from the moment you have arrived in this class
my dear, it has been apparent that you do not have what the noble art of
Divination requires. Indeed, I don't remember ever meeting a student
whose mind was so hopelessly mundane."

There was a moment's silence. Then --

"Fine!" said Hermione suddenly, getting up and cramming Unfogging the
Future back into her bag. "Fine!" she repeated, swinging the bag over
her shoulder and almost knocking Ron off his chair. "I give up! I'm
leaving!"

And to the whole class's amazement, Hermione strode over to the
trapdoor, kicked it open, and climbed down the ladder out of sight.

It took a few minutes for the class to settle down again. Professor
Trelawney seemed to have forgotten all about the Grim. She turned
abruptly from Harry and Ron's table, breathing rather heavily as she
tugged her gauzy shawl more closely to her.

"Ooooo!" said Lavender suddenly, making everyone start. "Ooooo,
Professor Trelawney, I've just remembered! You saw her leaving, didn't
you? Didn't you, Professor? 'Around Easter, one of our number will leave
us forever!' You said it ages ago, Professor!"

Professor Trelawney gave her a dewy smile.

"Yes, my dear, I did indeed know that Miss Granger would be leaving us.
One hopes, however, that one might have mistaken the Signs.... The Inner
Eye can be a burden, you know..."

Lavender and Parvati looked deeply impressed, and moved over so that
Professor Trelawney could join their table instead.

"Some day Hermione's having, eh?" Ron muttered to Harry, looking awed.

"Yeah..."

Harry glanced into the crystal ball but saw nothing but swirling white
mist. Had Professor Trelawney really seen the Grim again? Would he? The
last thing he needed was another near-fatal accident, with the Quidditch
final drawing ever nearer.

The Easter holidays were not exactly relaxing. The third years had never
had so much homework. Neville Longbottom seemed close to a nervous
collapse, and he wasn't the only one.

"Call this a holiday!" Seamus Finnigan roared at the common room one
afternoon. "The exams are ages away, what're they playing at?"

But nobody had as much to do as Hermione. Even without Divination, she
was taking more subjects than anybody else. She was usually last to
leave the common room at night, first to arrive at the library the next
morning; she had shadows like Lupin's under her eyes, and seemed
constantly close to tears.

Ron had taken over responsibility for Buckbeak's appeal. When he wasn't
doing his own work, he was poring over enormously thick volumes with
names like The Handbook of Hippogriff Psychology and Fowl or Foul? A
Study of Hippogriff Brutality. He was so absorbed, he even forgot to be
horrible to Crookshanks.

Harry, meanwhile, had to fit in his homework around Quidditch practice
every day, not to mention endless discussions of tactics with Wood. The
Gryffindor-Slytherin match would take place on the first Saturday after
the Easter holidays. Slytherin was leading the tournament by exactly two
hundred points. This meant (as Wood constantly reminded his team) that
they needed to win the match by more than that amount to win the Cup. It
also meant that the burden of winning fell largely on Harry, because
capturing the Snitch was worth one hundred and fifty points.

"So you must catch it only if we're more than fifty points up," Wood
told Harry constantly. "Only if we're more than fifty points up, Harry,
or we win the match but lose the Cup. You've got that, Haven't you? You
must catch the Snitch only if we're --"

"I KNOW, OLIVER!" Harry yelled.

The whole of Gryffindor House was obsessed with the coming match.
Gryffindor hadn't won the Quidditch Cup since the legendary Charlie
Weasley (Ron's second oldest brother) had been seeker. But Harry doubted
whether any of them, even Wood, wanted to win as much as he did. The
enmity between Harry and Malfoy was at its highest point ever. Malfoy
was still smarting ,bout the mud-throwing incident in Hogsmeade and was
even more furious that Harry had somehow wormed his way out of
punishment. Harry hadn't forgotten Malfoy's attempt to sabotage him in
the match against Ravenclaw, but it was the matter of Buckbeak that made
him most determined to beat Malfoy in front of the entire school.

Never, in anyone's memory, had a match approached in such a highly
charged atmosphere. By the time the holidays were over, tension between
the two teams and their Houses was at the breaking point. A number of
small scuffles broke out in the corridors, culminating in a nasty
incident in which a Gryffindor fourth year and a Slytherin sixth year
ended up in the hospital wing with leeks sprouting out of their ears.

Harry was having a particularly bad time of it. He couldn't walk to
class without Slytherins sticking out their legs and trying to trip him
up; Crabbe and Goyle kept popping up wherever he went, and slouching
away looking disappointed when they saw him surrounded by people. Wood
had given instructions that Harry should be accompanied everywhere he
went, in case the Slytherins tried to put him out of action. The whole
of Gryffindor House took up the challenge enthusiastically, so that it
was impossible for Harry to get to classes on time because he was
surrounded by a vast, chattering crowd. Harry was more concerned for his
Firebolt's safety than his own. When he wasn't flying it, he locked it
securely in his trunk and frequently dashed back up to Gryffindor Tower
at break times to check that it was still there.

All usual pursuits were abandoned in the Gryffindor common room the
night before the match. Even Hermione had Put down her books.

"I can't work, I can't concentrate," she said nervously.

There was a great deal of noise. Fred and George Weasley were dealing
with the pressure by being louder and more exuberant than ever. Oliver
Wood was crouched over a model of a Quidditch field in the corner,
prodding little figures across it with his wand and muttering to himself
Angelina, Alicia, and Katie were laughing at Fred's and George's jokes.
Harry was sitting with Ron and Hermione, removed from the center of
things, trying not to think about the next day, because every time he
did, he had the horrible sensation that something very large was
fighting to get out of his stomach.

"You're going to be fine," Hermione told him, though she looked
positively terrified.

"You've got a Firebolt!" said Ron.

"Yeah..." said Harry, his stomach writhing.

It came as a relief when Wood suddenly stood up and yelled, "Team! Bed!"

Harry slept badly. First he dreamed that he had overslept, and that Wood
was yelling, "Where were you? We had to use Neville instead!" Then he
dreamed that Malfoy and the rest of the Slytherin team arrived for the
match riding dragons. He was flying at breakneck speed, trying to avoid
a spurt of flames from Malfoy's steed's mouth, when he realized he had
forgotten his Firebolt. He fell through the air and woke with a start.

It was a few seconds before Harry remembered that the match hadn't taken
place yet, that he was safe in bed, and that the Slytherin team
definitely wouldn't be allowed to play on dragons. He was feeling very
thirsty. Quietly as he could, he got out of his four-poster and went to
pour himself some water from the silver jug beneath the window.

The grounds were still and quiet. No breath of wind disturbed the
treetops in the Forbidden Forest; the Whomping Willow was motionless and
innocent-looking. It looked as though the conditions for the match would
be perfect.

Harry set down his goblet and was about to turn back to his bed when
something caught his eye. An animal of some kind was prowling across the
silvery lawn.

Harry dashed to his bedside table, snatched up his glasses, and put them
on, then hurried back to the window. It couldn't be the Grim -- not now
-- not right before the match -

He peered out at the grounds again and, after a minute's frantic
searching, spotted it. It was skirting the edge of the forest now... It
wasn't the Grim at all ... it was a cat.... Harry clutched the window
ledge in relief as he recognized the bottlebrush tail. It was only
Crookshanks....

Or was it only Crookshanks? Harry squinted, pressing his nose flat
against the glass. Crookshanks seemed to have come to a halt. Harry was
sure he could see something else moving in the shadow of the trees too.

And just then, it emerged -- a gigantic, shaggy black dog, moving
stealthily across the lawn, Crookshanks trotting at its side. Harry
stared. What did this mean? If Crookshanks could see the dog as well,
how could it be an omen of Harry's death?

"Ron!" Harry hissed. "Ron! Wake up!"

"Huh?"

I need you to tell me if you can see something!"

"S'all dark, Harry," Ron muttered thickly. "What're you or, about?"

"Down here --"

Harry looked quickly back out of the window.

Crookshanks and the dog had vanished. Harry climbed onto the windowsill
to look right down into the shadows of the castle, but they weren't
there. Where had they gone?

A loud snore told him Ron had fallen asleep again.

Harry and the rest of the Gryffindor team entered the Great Hall the
next day to enormous applause. Harry couldn't help grinning broadly as
he saw that both the Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff tables were applauding
them too. The Slytherin table hissed loudly as they passed. Harry
noticed that Malfoy looked even paler than usual.

Wood spent the whole of breakfast urging his team to eat, while touching
nothing himself Then he hurried them off to the field before anyone else
had finished, so they could get an idea of the conditions. As they left
the Great Hall, everyone applauded again.

"Good luck, Harry!" called Cho. Harry felt himself blushing.

"Okay -- no wind to speak of -- sun's a bit bright, that could impair
your vision, watch out for it -- ground's fairly hard, good, that'll
give us a fast kickoff --"

Wood paced the field, staring around with the team behind him. Finally,
they saw the front doors of the castle open in the distance and the rest
of the school spilling onto the lawn.

"Locker rooms," said Wood tersely.

None of them spoke as they changed into their scarlet robes. Harry
wondered if they were feeling like he was: as though he'd eaten
something extremely wriggly for breakfast. In what seemed like no time
at all, Wood was saying, "Okay, it's time, let's go --"

They walked out onto the field to a tidal wave of noise. Threequarters
of the crowd was wearing scarlet rosettes, waving scarlet flags with the
Gryffindor lion upon them, or brandishing banners with slogans like "GO
GRYFFINDOR!" and "LIONS FOR THE CUK' Behind the Slytherin goal posts,
however, two hundred people were wearing green; the silver serpent of
Slytherin glittered on their flags, and Professor Snape sat in the very
front row, wearing green like everyone else, and a very grim smile.

"And here are the Gryffindors!" yelled Lee Jordan, who was acting as
commentator as usual. "Potter, Bell, Johnson, Spinnet, Weasley, Weasley,
and Wood. Widely acknowledged as the best team Hogwarts has seen in a
good few years --"

Lee's comments were drowned by a tide of "boos" from the Slytherin end.

"And here come the Slytherin team, led by Captain Flint. He's Made some
changes in the lineup and seems to be going for size rather than skill
--"

More boos from the Slytherin crowd. Harry, however, thought Lee had a
point. Malfoy was easily the smallest person On the Slytherin team; the
rest of them were enormous.

"Captains, shake hands!" said Madam Hooch.

Flint and Wood approached each other and grasped each other's hand very
tightly; it looked as though each was trying to break the other's
fingers.

"Mount your brooms!" said Madam Hooch. "Three... two... one..."

The sound of her whistle was lost in the roar from the crowd as fourteen
brooms rose into the air. Harry felt his hair fly back off his forehead;
his nerves left him in the thrill of the flight; he glanced around, saw
Malfoy on his tail, and sped off in search of the Snitch.

"And it's Gryffindor in possession, Alicia Spinner of Gryffindor with
the Quaffle, heading straight for the Slytherin goal posts, looking
good, Alicia! Argh, no -- Quaffle intercepted by Warrington, Warrington
of Slytherin tearing UP the field -- WHAM! -- nice Bludger work there by
George Weasley, Warrington drops the Quaffle, it's caught by -- Johnson,
Gryffindor back in possession, come on, Angelina -- nice swerve around
Montague -- duck, Angelina, that's a Bludger!- SHE SCORES! TEN-ZERO TO
GRYFFINDOR!"

Angelina punched the air as she soared around the end of the field; the
sea of scarlet below was screaming its delight

"OUCH!"

Angelina was nearly thrown from her broom as Marcus Flint went smashing
into her.

"Sorry!" said Flint as the crowd below booed. "Sorry, didn't see her!"

A moment later, Fred Weasley chucked his Beater's club at the back of
Flint's head. Flint's nose smashed into the handle of his broom and
began to bleed.

"That will do!" shrieked Madam Hooch, zooming between then. "Penalty
shot to Gryffindor for an unprovoked attack on their Chaser! Penalty
shot to Slytherin for deliberate damage to their Chaser!"

"Come off it, Miss!" howled Fred, but Madam Hooch blew her whistle and
Alicia flew forward to take the penalty.

"Come on, Alicia!" yelled Lee into the silence that had descended on the
crowd. "YES! SHE'S BEATEN THE KEEPER! TWENTY-ZERO TO GRYFFINDOR!"

Harry turned the Firebolt sharply to watch Flint, still bleeding freely,
fly forward to take the Slytherin penalty. Wood was hovering in front of
the Gryffindor goal posts, his jaw clenched.

"'Course, Wood's a superb Keeper!" Lee Jordan told the crowd as Flint
waited for Madam Hooch's whistle. "Superb! Very difficult to pass --
very difficult indeed -- YES! I DON'T BELIEVE IT! HE'S SAVED IT!"

Relieved, Harry zoomed away, gazing around for the Snitch, but still
making sure he caught every word of Lee's commentary. It was essential
that he hold Malfoy off the Snitch until Gryffindor was more than fifty
points up --

"Gryffindor in possession, no, Slytherin in possession -- no!

Gryffindor back in possession and it's Katie Bell, Katie Bell for
Gryffindor with the Quaffle, she's streaking up the field -- THAT WAS
DELIBERATE!"

Montague, a Slytherin Chaser, had swerved in front of Katie, and instead
of seizing the Quaffle had grabbed her head. Katie cart wheeled in the
air, managed to stay on her broom, but dropped the Quaffle.

Madam Hooch's whistle rang out again as she soared over to Montague and
began shouting at him. A minute later, Katie had put another penalty
past the Slytherin Seeker.

"THIRTY-ZERO! TAKE THAT, YOU DIRTY, CHEATING --"

"Jordan, if you can't commentate in an unbiased way --"

"I'm telling it like it is, Professor!"

Harry felt a huge jolt of excitement. He had seen the Snitch it was
shimmering at the foot of one of the Gryffindor goal posts -- but he
mustn't catch it yet -- and if Malfoy saw it -

Faking a look of sudden concentration, Harry pulled his Firebolt around
and sped off toward the Slytherin end -- it worked. Malfoy went haring
after him, clearly thinking Harry had seen the Snitch there....

WHOOSH.

One of the Bludgers came streaking past Harry's right ear, hit by the
gigantic Slytherin Beater, Derrick. Then again

WHOOSH.

The second Bludger grazed Harry's elbow. The other Beater, Bole, was
closing in.

Harry had a fleeting glimpse of Bole and Derrick zooming toward him,
clubs raised --

He turned the Firebolt upward at the last second, and Bole and Derrick
collided with a sickening crunch.

"Ha haaa!" yelled Lee Jordan as the Slytherin Beaters lurched away from
each other, clutching their heads. "Too bad, boys! You'll need to get up
earlier than that to beat a Firebold And it's Gryffindor in possession
again, as Johnson takes the Quaffle -- Flint alongside her -- poke him
in the eye, Angelina! -- it was a joke, Professor, it was a joke -- oh
no -- Flint in possession, Flint flying toward the Gryffindor goal
posts, come on now, Wood, save --!"

But Flint had scored; there was an eruption of cheers from the Slytherin
end, and Lee swore so badly that Professor McGonagall tried to tug the
magical megaphone away from him.

"Sorry, Professor, sorry! WoiA happen again! So, Gryffindor in the lead,
thirty points to ten, and Gryffindor in possession --"

it was turning into the dirtiest game Harry had ever played in. Enraged
that Gryffindor had taken such an early lead, the Slytherins were
rapidly resorting to any means to take the Quaffle. Bole hit Alicia with
his club and tried to say he'd thought she was a Bludger. George Weasley
elbowed Bole in the face in retaliation. Madam Hooch awarded both teams
penalties, and Wood pulled off another spectacular save, making the
score forty-ten to Gryffindor.

The Snitch had disappeared again. Malfoy was still keeping close to
Harry as he soared over the match, looking around for it once Gryffindor
was fifty points ahead -

Katie scored. Fifty-ten. Fred and George Weasley were swooping around
her, clubs raised, in case any of the Slytherins were thinking of
revenge. Bole and Derrick took advantage of Fred's and George's absence
to aim both Bludgers at Wood; they caught him in the stomach, one after
the other, and he rolled over in the air, clutching his broom,
completely winded.

Madam Hooch was beside herself

"YOU DO NOT ATTACK THE KEEPER UNLESS THE QUAFFLE IS WITHIN THE SCORING
AREA!" she shrieked at Bole and Derrick. "Gryffindor penalty!"

And Angelina scored. Sixty-ten. Moments later, Fred Weasley pelted a
Bludger at Warrington, knocking the Quaffle Out of his hands; Alicia
seized it and put it through the Slytherin goal -- seventy-ten.

The Gryffindor crowd below was screaming itself hoarse -- Gryffindor was
sixty points in the lead, and if Harry caught the Snitch now, the Cup
was theirs. Harry could almost feel hundreds of eyes following him as he
soared around the field, high above the rest of the game, with Malfoy
speeding along behind him.

And then he saw it. The Snitch was sparkling twenty feet above him.

Harry put on a huge burst of speed; the wind was roaring in his ears; he
stretched out his hand, but suddenly, the Firebolt was slowing down --

Horrified, he looked around. Malfoy had thrown himself forward, grabbed
hold of the Firebolt's tail, and was pulling it back.

"You --"

Harry was angry enough to hit Malfoy, but couldn't reach -- Malfoy was
panting with the effort of holding onto the Firebolt, but his eyes were
sparkling maliciously. He had achieved what he'd wanted to do -- the
Snitch had disappeared again.

"Penalty! Penalty to Gryffindor! I've never seen such tactics." Madam
Hooch screeched, shooting up to where Malfoy was sliding back onto his
Nimbus Two Thousand and One.

"YOU CHEATING SCUM!" Lee Jordan was howling into the megaphone, dancing
out of Professor McGonagall's reach. "YOU FILTHY, CHEATING B --"

Pprofessor McGonagall didn't even bother to tell him off She was
actually shaking her finger in Malfoys direction, her hat had fallen
off, and she too was shouting furiously.

Alicia took Gryffindor's penalty, but she was so angry she missed by
several feet. The Gryffindor team was losing concentration and the
Slytherins, delighted by Malfoy's foul on Harry, were being spurred on
to greater heights.

"Slytherin in possession, Slytherin heading for goal -- Montague scores
--" Lee groaned. "Seventy- twenty to Gryffindor..."

Harry was now marking Malfoy so closely their knees kept hitting each
other. Harry wasn't going to let Malfoy anywhere near the Snitch....

"Get out of it, Potter!" Malfoy yelled in frustration as he tried to
turn and found Harry blocking him.

"Angelina Johnson gets the Quaffle for Gryffindor, come on, Angelina,
COME ON!"

Harry looked around. Every single Slytherin player apart from Malfoy was
streaking up the pitch toward Angelina, including the Slytherin Keeper
-- they were all going to block her --

Harry wheeled the Firebolt around, bent so low he was lying flat along
the handle, and kicked it forward. Like a bullet, he shot toward the
Slytherins.

"AAAAAAARRRGH!"

They scattered as the Firebolt zoomed toward them; Angelina's Way was
clear.

"SHE SCORES! SHE SCORES! Gryffindor leads by eighty Points to twenty!"

Harry, who had almost pelted headlong into the stands, skidded to a halt
in midair, reversed, and zoomed back into the middle of the field.

And then he saw something to make his heart stand still. Malfoy was
diving, a look of triumph on his face -- there, a few feet above the
grass below, was a tiny, golden glimmer -

Harry urged the Firebolt downward, but Malfoy was miles ahead -

"Go! Go! Go!" Harry urged his broom. He was gaining on Malfay -- Harry
flattened himself to the broom handle as Bole sent a Bludger at him --
he was at Malfoy's ankles -- he was level --

Harry threw himself forward, took both hands off his broom. He knocked
Malfoy's arm out of the way and --

"YES!"

He pulled out of his dive, his hand in the air, and the stadium
exploded. Harry soared above the crowd, an odd ringing in his ears. The
tiny golden ball was held tight in his fist, beating its wings
hopelessly against his fingers.

Then Wood was speeding toward him, half-blinded by tears; he seized
Harry around the neck and sobbed unrestrainedly into his shoulder. Harry
felt two large thumps as Fred and George hit them; then Angelina's,
Alicia's, and Katie's voices, "We've won the Cup! We've won the Cup!"
Tangled together in a many-armed hug, the Gryffindor team sank, yelling
hoarsely, back to earth.

Wave upon wave of crimson supporters was pouring over the barriers onto
the field. Hands were raining down on their backs. Harry had a confused
impression of noise and bodies pressing in on him. Then he, and the rest
of the team, were hoisted onto the shoulders of the crowd. Thrust into
the light, he saw Hagrid, Plastered with crimson rosettes -- "Yeh beat
'em, Harry, yeh beat 'em!

Wait till I tell Buckbeak!" There was Percy, jumping up and down like a
maniac, all dignity forgotten. Professor McGonagall was sobbing harder
even than Wood, wiping her eyes with an enormous Gryffindor flag; and
there, fighting their way toward Harry, were Ron and Hermione. Words
failed them. They simply beamed as Harry was borne toward the stands,
where Dumbledore stood waiting with the enormous Quidditch Cup.

If only there had been a dementor around.... As a sobbing Wood passed
Harry the Cup, as he lifted it into the air, Harry felt he could have
produced the world's best Patronus.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY'S PREDICTION

Harry's euphoria at finally winning the Quidditch Cup lasted at least a
week. Even the weather seemed to be celebrating; as June approached, the
days became cloudless and sultry, and all anybody felt like doing was
strolling onto the grounds and flopping down on the grass with several
pints of iced pumpkin juice, perhaps playing a casual game of Gobstones
or watching the giant squid propel itself dreamily across the surface of
the lake.

But they couldn't. Exams were nearly upon them, and instead of lazing
around outside, the students were forced to remain inside the castle,
trying to bully their brains into concentrating while enticing wafts of
summer air drifted in through the windows. Even Fred and George Weasley
had been spotted working; they were about to take their O.W.L.s
(Ordinary Wizarding Levels). Percy was getting ready to take his
N.E.W.T.s (Nastily Exhausting Wizarding Tests), the highest
qualification Hogwarts offered. As Percy hoped to enter the Ministry of
Magic, he needed top grades. He was becoming increasingly edgy, and gave
very severe punishments to anybody who disturbed the quiet of the common
room in the evenings. In fact, the only person who seemed more anxious
than Percy was Hermione.

Harry and Ron had given up asking her how she was managing to attend
several classes at once, but they couldn't restrain themselves when they
saw the exam schedule she had drawn up for herself. The first column
read:

Monday

9 o'clock, Arithmancy

9 o'clock, Transfiguration

Lunch

1 o'clock, Charms

1 o'clock, Ancient Runes

"Hermione?" Ron said cautiously, because she was liable to explode when
interrupted these days. "Er -- are you sure you've copied down these
times right?"

"What?" snapped Hermione, picking up the exam schedule and examining it.
"Yes, of course I have."

"Is there any point asking how you're going to sit for two exams at
once?" said Harry.

"No," said Hermione shortly. "Have either of you seen my copy of
Numerology and Gramatica?"

"Oh, yeah, I borrowed it for a bit of bedtime reading," said Ron, but
very quietly. Hermione started shifting heaps of parchment Harry, Ron,
and Hermione plenty of opportunity to speak to Hagrid.

"Beaky's gettin' a bit depressed," Hagrid told them, bending low on the
pretense of checking that Harry's flobberworm was still alive. "Bin
cooped up too long. But still... we'll know day after tomorrow -- one
way or the other --"

They had Potions that afternoon, which was an unqualified disaster. Try
as Harry might, he couldn't get his Confusing Concoction to thicken, and
Snape, standing watch with an air of vindictive pleasure, scribbled
something that looked suspiciously like a zero onto his notes before
moving away.

Then came Astronomy at midnight, up on the tallest tower; History of
Magic on Wednesday morning, in which Harry scribbled everything Florean
Fortescue had ever told him about medieval witch-hunts, while wishing he
could have had one of Fortescue's choco-nut sundaes with him in the
stifling classroom. Wednesday afternoon meant Herbology, in the
greenhouses under a baking-hot sun; then back to the common room once
more, with sunburnt necks, thinking longingly of this time next day,
when it would all be over.

Their second to last exam, on Thursday morning, was Defense Against the
Dark Arts. Professor Lupin had compiled the most unusual exam any of
them had ever taken; a sort of obstacle course outside in the sun, where
they had to wade across a deep paddling pool containing a grindylow,
cross a series of potholes full of Red Caps, squish their way across a
patch of marsh while ignoring misleading directions from a hinkypunk,
then climb into an old trunk and battle with a new boggart.

"Excellent, Harry," Lupin muttered as Harry climbed out of the trunk,
grinning. "Full marks."

Flushed with his success, Harry hung around to watch Ron and Hermione.
Ron did very well until he reached the hinkypunk, which successfully
confused him into sinking waist-high into the quagmire. Hermione did
everything perfectly until she reached the trunk with the boggart in it.
After about a minute inside it, she burst out again, screaming.

"Hermione!" said Lupin, startled. "What's the matter?"

"P -- P -- Professor McGonagall!" Hermione gasped, pointing into the
trunk. "Sh -- she said I'd failed everything!"

It took a little while to calm Hermione down. When at last she had
regained a grip on herself, she, Harry, and Ron went back to the castle.
Ron was still slightly inclined to laugh at Hermione's boggart, but an
argument was averted by the sight that met them on the top of the steps.

Cornelius Fudge, sweating slightly in his pinstriped cloak, was standing
there staring out at the grounds. He started at the sight of Harry.

"Hello there, Harry!" he said. "Just had an exam, I expect? Nearly
finished?"

"Yes," said Harry. Hermione and Ron, not being on speaking terms with
the Minister of Magic, hovered awkwardly in the background.

"Lovely day," said Fudge, casting an eye over the lake.

"Pity... pity..."

He sighed deeply and looked down at Harry.

"I'm here on an unpleasant mission, Harry. The Committee for the
Disposal of Dangerous Creatures required a witness to the execution of a
mad hippogriff. As I needed to visit Hogwarts to check on the Black
situation, I was asked to step in."

"Does that mean the appeal's already happened?" Ron interrupted,
stepping forward.

"No, no, it's scheduled for this afternoon," said Fudge, looking
curiously at Ron.

"Then you might not have to witness an execution at A!" said Eon
stoutly. "The hippogriff might get off!"

Before Fudge could answer, two wizards came through the castle doors
behind him. One was so ancient he appeared to be withering before their
very eyes; the other was tall and strapping, with a thin back mustache.
Harry gathered that they were representatives of the Committee for the
Disposal of Dangerous Creatures, because tie very old wizard squinted
toward Hagrid's cabin and said in a feeble voice, "Dear, dear, I'm
getting too old for this.... Two o'clock, isn't it, Fudge?"

The black-mustached man was fingering something in his belt; Harry
looked and saw that he was running one broad thumb along the blade of a
shining axe. Ron opened his mouth to say something, but Hermione nudged
him hard in the ribs and jerked her head toward the entrance hall.

"Why'd you stop me?" said Ron angrily as they entered the Great Hall for
lunch. "Did you see them? They've even got the axe ready! This isn't
justice!"

"Ron, your dad works for the Ministry, you can't go saying things like
that to his boss!" said Hermione, but she too looked very upset. "As
long as Hagrid keeps his head this time, and argue, hi case properly,
they can't possibly execute Buckbeak...."

But Harry could tell Hermione didn't really believe what she was saying.
All around them, people were talking excitedly as they ate their lunch,
happily anticipating the end of the exams that afternoon, but Harry,
Ron, and Hermione, lost in worry about Hagrid and Buckbeak, didn't join
in.

Harry's and Ron's last exam was Divination; Hermione's, Muggle Studies.
They walked up the marble staircase together; Hermione left them on the
first floor and Harry and Ron proceeded all the way up to the seventh,
where many of their class were sitting on the spiral staircase to
Professor Trelawney's classroom, trying to cram in a bit of last-minute
studying.

"She's seeing us all separately," Neville informed them as they went to
sit down next to him. He had his copy of Unfogging the Future open on
his lap at the pages devoted to crystal gazing. "Have either of you ever
seen anything in a crystal ball?" he asked them unhappily.

"Nope," said Ron in an offhand voice. He kept checking his watch; Harry.
knew that he was counting down the time until Buckbeak's appeal started.

The line of people outside the classroom shortened very slowly. As each
person climbed back down the silver ladder, the rest of the class
hissed, "What did she ask? Was it okay?"

But they all refused to say.

"She says the crystal ball's told her that if I tell you, I'll have a
horrible accident!" squeaked Neville as he clambered back down the
ladder toward Harry and Ron, who had now reached the landing.

"That's convenient," snorted Ron. "You know, I'm starting to think
Hermione was right about her" -- he jabbed his thumb toward the trapdoor
overhead -- "she's a right old fraud."

"Yeah," said Harry, looking at his own watch. It-was now two o'clock.
"Wish she'd hurry up..."

Parvati came back down the ladder glowing with pride.

"She says I've got all the makings of a true Seer," she informed Harry
and Ron. "I saw loads of stuff... Well, good luck!"

She hurried off down the spiral staircase toward Lavender.

"Ronald Weasley," said the familiar, misty voice from over their heads.
Ron grimaced at Harry and climbed the silver ladder out of sight. Harry
was now the only person left to be tested. He settled himself on the
floor with his back against the wall, listening to a fly buzzing in the
sunny window, his mind across the grounds with Hagrid.

Finally, after about twenty minutes, Ron's large feet reappeared on the
ladder.

"How'd it go?" Harry asked him, standing up.

"Rubbish," said Ron. "Couldn't see a thing, so I made some stuff up.
Don't think she was convinced, though...."

"Meet you in the common room," Harry muttered as Professor Trelawney's
voice called, "Harry Potter!"

The tower room was hotter than ever before; the curtains were closed,
the fire was alight, and the usual sickly scent made Harry cough as he
stumbled through the clutter of chairs and table to where Professor
Trelawney sat waiting for him before a large crystal ball.

"Good day, my dear," she said softly. "If you would kindly gaze into the
Orb.... Take your time, now... then tell me what you see within it...."

Harry bent over the crystal ball and stared, stared as hard as he could,
willing it to show him something other than swirling white fog, but
nothing happened.

"Well?" Professor Trelawney prompted delicately. "What do you see?"

The heat was overpowering and his nostrils were stinging with the
perfumed smoke wafting from the fire beside them. He thought of what Ron
had just said, and decided to pretend.

"Er --" said Harry, "a dark shape... um..."

"What does it resemble?" whispered Professor Trelawney. "Think, now..."

Harry cast his mind around and it landed on Buckbeak.

"A hippogriff," he said firmly.

"Indeed!" whispered Professor Trelawney, scribbling keenly on the
parchment perched upon her knees. "My boy, you may well be seeing the
outcome of poor Hagrid's trouble with the Ministry of Magic! Look
closer... Does the hippogriff appear to... have its head?"

"Yes," said Harry firmly.

"Are you sure?" Professor Trelawney urged him. "Are you quite sure,
dear? You don't see it writhing on the ground, perhaps, and a shadowy
figure raising an axe behind it?"

"No!" said Harry, starting to feel slightly sick.

"No blood? No weeping Hagrid?"

"No!" said Harry again, wanting more than ever to leave the room and the
heat. "It looks fine, it's - - flying away..."

Professor Trelawney sighed.

"Well, dear, I think we'll leave it there.... A little disappointing...
but I'm sure you did your best."

Relieved, Harry got up, picked up his bag and turned to go, but then a
loud, harsh voice spoke behind him.

"IT WILL HAPPEN TONIGHT."

Harry wheeled around. Professor Trelawney had gone rigid in her
armchair; her eyes were unfocused and her mouth sagging.

"S -- sorry?" said Harry.

But Professor Trelawney didn't seem to hear him. Her eyes started to
roll. Harry sat there in a panic. She looked as though she was about to
have some sort of seizure. He hesitated, thinking of running to the
hospital wing -- and then Professor Trelawney spoke again, in the same
harsh voice, quite unlike her own:

"THE DARK LORD LIES ALONE AND FRIENDLESS, ABANDONED BY HIS FOLLOWERS.
HIS SERVANT HAS BEEN CHAINED THESE TWELVE YEARS. TONIGHT, BEFORE
MIDNIGHT... THE SERVANT WILL BREAK FREE AND SET OUT TO REJOIN HIS
MASTER. THE DARK LORD WILL RISE AGAIN WITH HIS SERVANTS AID, GREATER AND
MORE TERRIBLE THAN EVER HE WAS. TONIGHT... BEFORE MIDNIGHT... THE
SERVANT... WILL SET OU... TO REJOIN... HIS MASTER....

Professor Trelawney's head fell forward onto her chest. She made a
grunting sort of noise. Harry sat there, staring at her. Then, quite
suddenly, Professor Trelawney's head snapped up again.

"I'm so sorry, dear boy," she said dreamily, "the heat of the day, you
know... I drifted off for a moment...."

Harry sat there, staring at her.

"Is there anything wrong, my dear?"

"You -- you just told me that the -- the Dark Lord's going to rise
again... that his servant's going to go back to him.

Professor Trelawney looked thoroughly startled.

"The Dark Lord? He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named? My dear boy, that's hardly
something to joke about.... Rise again, indeed --"

,'But you just said it! You. said the Dark Lord --"

"I think you must have dozed off too, dear!" said Professor Trelawney.
"I would certainly not presume to predict anything quite as far-fetched
as that!"

Harry climbed back down the ladder and the spiral staircase,
wondering... had he just heard Professor Trelawney make a real
prediction? Or had that been her idea of an impressive end to the test?

Five minutes later he was dashing past the security trolls outside the
entrance to Gryffindor Tower, Professor Trelawney's words still
resounding in his head. People were striding past him in the opposite
direction, laughing and joking, heading for the grounds and a bit of
long-awaited freedom; by the time he had reached the portrait hole and
entered the common room, it was almost deserted. Over in the corner,
however, sat Ron and Hermione.

"Professor Trelawney," Harry panted, "just told me --"

But he stopped abruptly at the sight of their faces.

"Buckbeak lost," said Ron weakly. "Hagrid's just sent this."

Hagrid's note was dry this time, no tears had splattered it, yet his
hand seemed to have shaken so much as he wrote that it was hardly
legible.

Lost appeal. They're going to execute at sunset. Nothing you can do.
Don't come down. I don't want you to see it.

Hagrid

"We've got to go," said Harry at once. "He can't just sit there on his
own, waiting for the executioner!"

"Sunset, though," said Ron, who was staring out the window ill a glazed
sort of way. "We'd never be allowed... 'specially you, Harry...."

Harry sank his head into his hands, thinking.

"If we only had the Invisibility Cloak...."

"Where is it?" said Hermione.

Harry told her about leaving it in the passageway under the one-eyed
witch.

"... if Snape sees me anywhere near there again, I'm in serious
trouble," he finished.

"That's true," said Hermione, getting to her feet. "If he sees you....
How do you open the witch's hump again?"

"You -- you tap it and say, 'Dissendium,'" said Harry. "But --"

Hermione didn't wait for the rest of his sentence; she strode across the
room, pushed open the Fat Lady's portrait and vanished from sight.

"She hasn't gone to get it?" Ron said, staring after her.

She had. Hermione returned a quarter of an hour later with the silvery
cloak folded carefully under her robes.

"Hermione, I don't know what's gotten, into you lately!" said Ron,
astounded. "First you hit Malfoy, then you walk out on Professor
Trelawney --"

Hermione looked rather flattered.

They went down to dinner with everybody else, but did not return to
Gryffindor Tower afterward. Harry had the cloak hidden down tie front of
his robes; he had to keep his arms folded to hide the lump. They skulked
in an empty chamber off the entrance hall, listening, until they were
sure it was deserted. They heard a last pair of people hurrying across
the hall and a door slamming. Hermione poked her head around the door.

"Okay," she whispered, "no one there -- cloak on --"

Walking very close together so that nobody would see them, they crossed
the hall on tiptoe beneath the cloak, then walked down the stone front
steps into the grounds. The sun was already sinking behind the Forbidden
Forest, gilding the top branches of the trees.

They reached Hagrid's cabin and knocked. He was a minute in answering,
and when he did, he looked all around for his visitor, pale-faced and
trembling.

"It's us," Harry hissed. "We're wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Let us
in and we can take it off."

"Yeh shouldn've come!" Hagrid whispered, but he stood back, and they
stepped inside. Hagrid shut the door quickly and Harry pulled off the
cloak.

Hagrid was not crying, nor did he throw himself upon their necks. He
looked like a man who did not know where he was or what to do. This
helplessness was worse to watch than tears.

"Wan' some tea?" he said. His great hands were shaking as he reached for
the kettle.

"Where's Buckbeak, Hagrid?" said Hermione hesitantly.

I -- I took him outside," said Hagrid, spilling milk all over the table
as he filled up the jug. "He's tethered in me pumpkin patch. Thought he
oughta see the trees an' -- an' smell fresh air -- before

Hagrid's hand trembled so violently that the milk jug slipped from his
grasp and shattered all over the floor.

"I'll do it, Hagrid," said Hermione quickly, hurrying over and starting
to clean up the mess.

"There's another one in the cupboard," Hagrid said, sitting down and
wiping his forehead on his sleeve. Harry glanced at Ron, who looked back
hopelessly.

"Isn't there anything anyone can do, Hagrid?" Harry asked fiercely,
sitting down next to him. "Dumbledore --"

"He's tried," said Hagrid. "He's got no power ter overrule the
Committee. He told 'em Buckbeak's all right, but they're scared.... Yeh
know what Lucius Malfoy's like... threatened 'em, I expect... an' the
executioner, Macnair, he's an old pal o' Malfoy's... but it'll be quick
an' clean... an' I'll be beside him.... "

Hagrid swallowed. His eyes were darting all over the cabin as though
looking for some shred of hope or comfort.

"Dumbledore's gonna come down while it -- while it happens. Wrote me
this mornin'. Said he wants ter -- ter be with me. Great man,
Dumbledore...."

Hermione, who had been rummaging in Hagrid's cupboard for another milk
jug, let out a small, quickly stifled sob. She straightened up with the
new jug in her hands, fighting back tears.

"We'll stay with you too, Hagrid," she began, but Hagrid shook his
shaggy head.

"Yeh're ter go back up ter the castle. I told yeh, I don' wan' yeh
watchin'. An' yeh shouldn' be down here anyway... If Fudge an'
Dumbledore catch yeh out without permission, Harry, yeh'll be in big
trouble."

Silent tears were now streaming down Hermione's face, but she hid them
from Hagrid, bustling around making tea. Then, as she picked up the milk
bottle to pour some into the jug, she let out a shriek.

"Ron, I don't believe it -- it's Scabbers!"

Ron gaped at her.

"What are you talking about?"

Hermione carried the milk jug over to the table and turned it upside
down. With a frantic squeak, and much scrambling to get back inside,
Scabbers the rat came sliding out onto the table.

"Scabbers!" said Ron blankly. "Scabbers, what are you doing here?"

He grabbed the struggling rat and held him up to the light. Scabbers
looked dreadful. He was thinner than ever, large tufts of hair had
fallen out leaving wide bald patches, and he writhed in Ron's hands as
though desperate to free himself

"It's okay, Scabbers!" said Ron. "No cats! There's nothing here to hurt
you!"

Hagrid suddenly stood up, his eyes fixed on the window. His normally
ruddy face had gone the color of parchment.

"They're comin'...."

Harry, Ron, and Hermione whipped around. A group of men was walking down
the distant castle steps. In front was Albus Dumbledore, his silver
beard gleaming in the dying sun. Next to him trotted Cornelius Fudge.
Behind them came the feeble old Committee member and the executioner,
Macnair.

"Yeh gotta go," said Hagrid. Every inch of him was trembling. "They
mustn' find yeh here.... Go now..."

Ron stuffed Scabbers into his pocket and Hermione picked up the cloak.
"I'll let yeh out the back way," said Hagrid.

They followed him to the door into his back garden. Harry felt strangely
unreal, and even more so when he saw Buckbeak a few yards away, tethered
to a tree behind Hagrid's Pumpkin patch. Buckbeak seemed to know
something was happening. He turned his sharp head from side to side and
pawed the ground nervously.

"It's okay, Beaky," said Hagrid softly. "It's okay..." He turned to
Harry, Ron, and Hermione. "Go on," he said. "Get goin'."

But they didn't move.

"Hagrid, we can't --"

"We'll tell them what really happened --"

"They can't kill him --"

"Go!" said Hagrid fiercely. "It's bad enough without you lot in trouble
an' all!"

They had no choice. As Hermione threw the cloak over Harry and Ron, they
heard voices at the front of the cabin. Hagrid looked at the place where
they had just vanished from sight.

"Go quick," he said hoarsely. "Don' listen...."

And he strode back into his cabin as someone knocked at the front door.

Slowly, in a kind of horrified trance, Harry, Ron, and Hermione set off
silently around Hagrid's house. As they reached the other side, the
front door closed with a sharp snap.

"Please, let's hurry," Hermione whispered. "I can't stand it, I can't
bear it...."

They started up the sloping lawn toward the castle. The sun was sinking
fast now; the sky had turned to a clear, purple-tinged grey, but to the
west there was a ruby-red glow.

Ron stopped dead.

"Oh, please, Ron," Hermione began.

"It's Scabbers -- he won't -- stay put --"

Ron was bent over, trying to keep Scabbers in his pocket, but the rat
was going berserk; squeaking madly, twisting and flailing, trying to
sink his teeth into Ron's hand.

"Scabbers, it's me, you idiot, it's Ron," Ron hissed.

They heard a door open behind them and men's voices.

"Oh, Ron, please let's move, they're going to do it!" Hermione breathed.

"Okay -- Scabbers, stay put --"

They walked forward; Harry, like Hermione, was trying not to listen to
the rumble of voices behind them. Ron stopped again.

"I can't hold him -- Scabbers, shut up, everyone'll hear us --"

The rat was squealing wildly, but not loudly enough to cover up the
sounds drifting from Hagrid's garden. There was a jumble of indistinct
male voices, a silence, and then, without warning, the unmistakable
swish and thud of an axe.

Hermione swayed on the spot.

"They did it!" she whispered to Harry. "I d -- don't believe it -- they
did it!"

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

CAT, RAT, AND DOG

Harry's mind had gone blank with shock. The three of them stood
transfixed with horror under the Invisibility Cloak. The very last rays
of the setting sun were casting a bloody light over the long- shadowed
grounds. Then, behind them, they heard a wild howling.

"Hagrid," Harry muttered. Without thinking about what he was doing, he
made to turn back, but both Ron and Hermione seized his arms.

"We can't," said Ron, who was paper-white. "He'll be in worse trouble if
they know we've been to see him...."

Hermione's breathing was shallow and uneven.

"How -- could -- they?" she choked. "How could they?"

"Come on," said Ron, whose teeth seemed to be chattering.

They set off back toward the castle, walking slowly to keep themselves
hidden under the cloak. The light was fading fast now.

By the time they reached open ground, darkness was settling like a spell
around them.

"Scabbers, keep still," Ron hissed, clamping his hand over his chest.
The rat was wriggling madly. Ron came to a sudden halt, trying to force
Scabbers deeper into his pocket. "What's the matter with you, You stupid
rat? Stay still -- OUCH! He bit me!"

"Ron, be quiet!" Hermione whispered urgently. "Fudge'll be out here in a
minute --"

"He won't -- stay -- put --"

Scabbers was plainly terrified. He was writhing with all his might,
trying to break free of Ron's grip.

"What's the matter with him?"

But Harry had just seen -- stinking toward them, his body low to the
ground, wide yellow eyes glinting eerily in the darkness -- Crookshanks.
Whether he could see them or was following the sound of Scabbers's
squeaks, Harry couldn't tell.

"Crookshanks!" Hermione moaned. "No, go away, Crookshanks! Go away!"

But the cat was getting nearer --

"Scabbers -- NO!"

Too late -- the rat had slipped between Ron's clutching fingers, hit the
ground, and scampered away. In one bound, Crookshanks sprang after him,
and before Harry or Hermione could stop him, Ron had thrown the
Invisibility Cloak off himself and pelted away into the darkness.

"Ron!" Hermione moaned.

She and Harry looked at each other, then followed at a sprint; it ""as
impossible to run full out under the cloak; they pulled it off and it
streamed behind them like a banner as they hurtled after Ron; they could
hear his feet thundering along ahead and his shouts at Crookshanks.

"Get away from him -- get away -- Scabbers, come here --"

There was a loud thud.

"Gotcha! Get off, you stinking cat --"

Harry and Hermione almost fell over Ron; they skidded to a stop right in
front of him. He was sprawled on the ground, but Scabbers was back in
his pocket; he had both hands held tight over the quivering lump.

"Ron -- come on back under the cloak --" Hermione panted. "Dumbledore
the Minister -- they'll be coming back out in a minute --"

But before they could cover themselves again, before they could even
catch their breath, they heard the soft pounding of gigantic paws....
Something was bounding toward them, quiet as a shadow -- an enormous,
pale-eyed, jet-black dog.

Harry reached for his wand, but too late -- the dog had made an enormous
leap and the front paws hit him on the chest; he keeled over backward in
a whirl of hair; he felt its hot breath, saw inch- long teeth -

But the force of its leap had carried it too far; it rolled off him.
Dazed, feeling as though his ribs were broken, Harry tried to stand up;
he could hear it growling as it skidded around for a new attack.

Ron was on his feet. As the dog sprang back toward them he pushed Harry
aside; the dog's jaws fastened instead around Ron's outstretched arm.
Harry lunged forward, he seized a handful of the brute's hair, but it
was dragging Ron away as easily as though he were a rag doll --

Then, out of nowhere, something hit Harry so hard across the face he was
knocked off his feet again. He heard Hermione shriek with pain and fall
too.

Harry groped for his wand, blinking blood out of his eyes

"Lumos!"he whispered.

The wandlight showed him the trunk of a thick tree; they had chased
Scabbers into the shadow of the Whomping Willow and its branches were
creaking as though in a high wind, whipping backward and forward to stop
them going nearer.

And there, at the base of the trunk, was the dog, dragging Ron backward
into a large gap in the roots -- Ron was fighting furiously, but his
head and torso were slipping out of sight --

"Ron!" Harry shouted, trying to follow, but a heavy branch whipped
lethally through the air and he was forced backward again.

All they could see now was one of Ron's legs, which he had hooked around
a root in an effort to stop the dog from pulling him farther underground
-- but a horrible crack cut the air like a gunshot; Ron's leg had
broken, and a moment later, his foot vanished from sight.

"Harry -- we've got to go for help --" Hermione gasped; she was bleeding
too; the Willow had cut her across the shoulder.

"No! That thing's big enough to eat him; we haven't got time --"

"Harry -- we're never going to get through without help --"

Another branch whipped down at them, twigs clenched like knuckles.

"If that dog can get in, we can," Harry panted, darting here and there,
trying to find a way through the vicious, swishing branches, but he
couldn't get an inch nearer to the tree roots without being in range of
the tree's blows.

"Oh, help, help," Hermione whispered frantically, dancing U._ certainly
on the spot, "Please..."

Crookshanks darted forward. He slithered between the battering branches
like a snake and placed his front paws upon a knot on the trunk.

Abruptly, as though the tree had been turned to marble, it stopped
moving. Not a leaf twitched or shook.

"Crookshanks!" Hermione whispered uncertainly. She now grasped Harry's
arm painfully hard. "How did he know --?"

"He's friends with that dog," said Harry grimly. "I've seen them
together. Come on -- and keep your wand out --"

They covered the distance to the trunk in seconds, but before they had
reached the gap in the roots, Crookshanks had slid into it with a flick
of his bottlebrush tail. Harry went next; he crawled forward, headfirst,
and slid down an earthy slope to the bottom of a very low tunnel.
Crookshanks was a little way along, his eyes flashing in the light from
Harry's wand. Seconds later, Hermione slithered down beside him.

"Where's Ron?" she whispered in a terrified voice.

"This way," said Harry, setting off, bent-backed, after Crookshanks.

"Where does this tunnel come out?" Hermione asked breathlessly from
behind him.

"I don't know... It's marked on the Marauder's Map but Fred and George
said no one's ever gotten into it.... It goes off the edge of the map,
but it looked like it was heading for Hogsmeade..."

They moved as fast as they could, bent almost double; ahead of them,
Crookshanks's tail bobbed in and out of view. On and on went the
passage; it felt at least as long as the one to Honeydukes.... All Harry
could think of was Ron and what the enormous dog might be doing to
him.... He was drawing breath in sharp, painful gasps, running at a
crouch....

And then the tunnel began to rise; moments later it twisted, and
Crookshanks had gone. instead, Harry could see a patch of dim light
through a small opening.

He and Hermione paused, gasping for breath, edging forward. Both raised
their wands to see what lay beyond.

It was a room, a very disordered, dusty room. Paper was peeling from the
walls; there were stains all over the floor; every piece of furniture
was broken as though somebody had smashed it. The windows were all
boarded up.

Harry glanced at Hermione, who looked very frightened but nodded.

Harry pulled himself out of the hole, staring around. The room was
deserted, but a door to their right stood open, leading to a shadowy
hallway. Hermione suddenly grabbed Harry's arm again. Her wide eyes were
traveling around the boarded windows.

"Harry," she whispered, "I think we're in the Shrieking Shack."

Harry looked around. His eyes fell on a wooden chair near them. Large
chunks had been torn out of it; one of the legs had been ripped off
entirely.

"Ghosts didn't do that," he said slowly.

At that moment, there was a creak overhead. Something had Moved
upstairs. Both of them looked up at the ceiling. Hermione's grip on
Harry's arm was so tight he was losing feeling in-his fingers. He raised
his eyebrows at her; she nodded again and let go.

Quietly as they could, they crept out into the hall and UP the crumbling
staircase. Everything was covered in a thick layer of dust except the
floor, where a wide shiny stripe had been made by something being
dragged upstairs.

They reached the dark landing.

"Nox," they whispered together, and the lights at the end of their wands
went out. Only one door was open. As they crept toward it, they heard
movement from behind it; a low moan, and then a deep, loud purring. They
exchanged a last look, a last nod.

Wand held tightly before him, Harry kicked the door wide open.

On a magnificent four-poster bed with dusty hangings lay Crookshanks,
purring loudly at the sight of them. On the floor beside him, clutching
his leg, which stuck out at a strange angle, was Ron.

Harry and Hermione dashed across to him.

"Ron -- are you okay?"

"Where's the dog?"

"Not a dog," Ron moaned. His teeth were gritted with pain. "Harry, it's
a trap --"

"What --"

"He's the dog... he's an Animagus."

Ron was staring over Harry's shoulder. Harry wheeled around. With a
snap, the man in the shadows closed the door behind them.

A mass of filthy, matted hair hung to his elbows. If eyes hadn't been
shining out of the deep, dark sockets, he might have been a corpse. The
waxy skin was stretched so tightly over the bones of his face, it looked
like a skull. His yellow teeth were bared in a grin. It was Sirius
Black.

"Expelliarmus!"he croaked, pointing Ron's wand at them.

Harry's and Hermione's wands shot out of their hands, high in the air,
and Black caught them. Then he took a step closer. His eyes were fixed
on Harry.

"I thought you'd come and help your friend," he said hoarsely.

His voice sounded as though he had long since lost the habit of using
it. "Your father would have done the same for me. Brave of you) not to
run for a teacher. I'm grateful... it will make everything much
easier...."

The taunt about his father rang in Harry's ears as though Black had
bellowed it. A boiling hate erupted in Harry's chest, leaving no place
for fear. For the first time in his life, he wanted his wand back in his
hand, not to defend himself, but to attack... to kill. Without knowing
what he was doing, he started forward, but there was a sudden movement
on either side of him and two pairs of hands grabbed him and held him
back.... "No, Harry!" Hermione gasped in a petrified whisper; Ron,
however, spoke to Black.

"If you want to kill Harry, you'll have to kill us too!" he said
fiercely, though the effort of standing upright was draining him of
still more color, and he swayed slightly as he spoke.

Something flickered in Black's shadowed eyes.

"Lie down," he said quietly to Ron. "You will damage that leg even
more."

"Did you hear me?" Ron said weakly, though he was clinging painfully to
Harry to stay upright. "You'll have to kill all three of us!"

"There'll be only one murder here tonight," said Brack, and his grin
widened.

"Why's that?" Harry spat, trying to wrench himself free of Ron, and
Hermione. "Didn't care last time, did you? Didn't mind slaughtering all
those Muggles to get at Pettigrew... What's the matter, gone soft in
Azkaban?"

"Harry!" Hermione whimpered. "Be quiet!"

"HE KILLED MY MUM AND DAD!" Harry roared, and with a huge effort he
broke free of Hermione's and Ron's restraint and lunged forward -

He had forgotten about magic -- he had forgotten that he was short and
skinny and thirteen, whereas Black was a tall, full-grown man -- all
Harry knew was that he wanted to hurt Black as badly as he could and
that he didn't care how much he got hurt in return --

Perhaps it was the shock of Harry doing something so stupid, but Black
didn't raise the wands in time -- one of Harry's hands fastened over his
wasted wrist, forcing the wand tips away; the knuckles of Harry's other
hand collided with the side of Black's head and they fell, backward,
into the wall -

Hermione was screaming; Ron was yelling; there was a blinding flash as
the wands in Black's hand sent a jet of sparks into the air that missed
Harry's face by inches; Harry felt the shrunken arm under his fingers
twisting madly, but he clung on, his other hand punching every part of
Black it could find.

But Black's free hand had found Harry's throat

"No," he hissed, "I've waited too long --"

The fingers tightened, Harry choked, his glasses askew.

Then he saw Hermione's foot swing out of nowhere. Black let go of Harry
with a grunt of pain; Ron had thrown himself on Black's wand hand and
Harry heard a faint clatter --

He fought free of the tangle of bodies and saw his own wand rolling
across the floor; he threw himself toward it but

"Argh!"

Crookshanks had joined the fray; both sets of front claws had sunk
themselves deep into Harry's arm; Harry threw him off, but Crookshanks
now darted toward Harry's wand --

"NO YOU DON'T!" roared Harry, and he aimed a kick at Crookshanks that
made the cat leap aside, spitting; Harry snatched up his wand and turned
-

"Get out of the way!" he shouted at Ron and Hermione.

They didn't need telling twice. Hermione, gasping for breath, her lip
bleeding, scrambled aside, snatching up her and Ron's wands. Ron crawled
to the four-poster and collapsed onto it, panting, his white face now
tinged with green, both hands clutching his broken leg.

Black was sprawled at the bottom of the wall. His thin chest rose and
fell rapidly as he watched Harry walking slowly nearer, his wand
pointing straight at Black's heart.

"Going to kill me, Harry?" he whispered.

Harry stopped right above him, his wand still pointing at Black's chest,
looking down at him. A livid bruise was rising around Black's left eye
and his nose was bleeding.

"You killed my parents," said Harry, his voice shaking slightly, but his
wand hand quite steady.

Black stared up at him out of those sunken eyes.

"I don't deny it," he said very quietly. "But if you knew the whole
story."

"The whole story?" Harry repeated, a furious pounding in his ears. "You
sold them to Voldemort. That's all I need to know."

"You've got to listen to me," Black said, and there was a note of
urgency in his voice now. "You'll regret it if you don't.... You don't
understand...."

"I understand a lot better than you think," said Harry, and his voice
shook more than ever. "You never heard her, did you? My mum... trying to
stop Voldemort killing me... and you did that... you did it...."

Before either of them could say another word, something ginger streaked
past Harry; Crookshanks leapt onto Black's chest and settled himself
there, right over Black's heart. Black blinked and looked down at the
cat.

"Get off," he murmured, trying to push Crookshanks off him.

But Crookshanks sank his claws into Black's robes and wouldn't shift. He
turned his ugly, squashed face to Harry and looked up at him with those
great yellow eyes. To his right, Hermione gave a dry sob.

Harry stared down at Black and Crookshanks, his grip tightening on the
wand. So what if he had to kill the cat too? It was in league with
Black.... If it was prepared to die, trying to protect Black, that
wasn't Harry's business.... If Black wanted to save it, that only proved
he cared more for Crookshanks than for Harry's parents....

Harry raised the wand. Now was the moment to do it. Now was the moment
to avenge his mother and father. He was going to kill Black. He had to
kill Black. This was his chance....

The seconds lengthened. And still Harry stood frozen there, wand poised,
Black staring up at him, Crookshanks on his chest. Ron's ragged
breathing came from near the bed; Hermione was quite silent.

And then came a new sound -

Muffled footsteps were echoing up through the floor -- someone was
moving downstairs.

"WE'RE UP HERE!" Hermione screamed suddenly. "WE'RE UP HERE -- SIRIUS
BLACK - QUICK!"

Black made a startled movement that almost dislodged Crookshanks; Harry
gripped his wand convulsively -- Do it now! said a voice in his head --
but the footsteps were thundering up the stairs and Harry still hadn't
done it.

The door of the room burst open in a shower of red sparks and Harry
wheeled around as Professor Lupin came hurtling into the room, his face
bloodless, his wand raised and ready. His eyes flickered over Ron, lying
on the floor, over Hermione, cowering next to the door, to Harry,
standing there with his wand covering Black, and then to Black himself,
crumpled and bleeding at Harry's feet.

"Expelliarmus!" Lupin shouted.

Harry's wand flew once more out of his hand; so did the two Hermione was
holding. Lupin caught them all deftly, then moved into the room, staring
at Black, who still had Crookshanks lying Protectively across his chest.

Harry stood there, feeling suddenly empty. He hadn't done it. His nerve
had failed him. Black was going to be handed back to the dementors.

Then Lupin spoke, in a very tense voice.

"Where is he, Sirius?"

Harry looked quickly at Lupin. He didn't understannd what Lupin meant.
Who was Lupin talking about? He turned to look at Black again.

Black's face was quite expressionless. For a few seconds, he didn't move
at all. Then, very slowly, he raised his empty hand and pointed straight
at Ron. Mystified, Harry glanced around at Ron, who looked bewildered.

"But then..." Lupin muttered, staring at Black so intently it seemed he
was trying to read his mind, "... why hasn't he shown himself before
now? Unless" -- Lupin's eyes suddenly widened, as though he was seeing
something beyond Black, something none of the rest could see, "-- unless
he was the one... unless you switched... without telling me?"

Very slowly, his sunken gaze never leaving Lupin's face, Black nodded.

"Professor," Harry interrupted loudly, "what's going on --?"

But he never finished the question, because what he saw made his voice
die in his throat. Lupin was lowering his wand, gazing fixed at Black.
The Professor walked to Black's side, seized his hand, pulled him to his
feet so that Crookshanks fell to the floor, and embraced Black like a
brother.

Harry felt as though the bottom had dropped out of his stomach.

"DON'T BELIEVE IT!" Hermione screamed.

Lupin let go of Black and turned to her. She had raised herself off the
floor and was pointing at Lupin, wild-eyed. "You -- you --"

"Hermione --"

"-- you and him!"

"Hermione, calm down --"

"I didn't tell anyone!" Hermione shrieked. "I've been covering up for
you --"

"Hermione, listen to me, please'" Lupin shouted. "I can explain --"

Harry could feel himself shaking, not with fear, but with a fresh wave
of fury.

"I trusted you," he shouted at Lupin, his voice wavering, out of
control, "and all the time you've been his friend!"

"You're wrong," said Lupin. "I haven't been Sirius's friend, but I am
now -- Let me explain...."

"NO!" Hermione screamed. "Harry, don't trust him, he's been helping
Black get into the castle, he wants you dead too -- he's a werewolf!"

There was a ringing silence. Everyone's eyes were now on Lupin, who
looked remarkably calm, though rather pale.

"Not at all up to your usual standard, Hermione," he said. "Only one out
of three, I'm afraid. I have not been helping Sirius get into the castle
and I certainly don't want Harry dead. An odd shiver passed over his
face. "But I won't deny that I am a werewolf."

Ron made a valiant effort to get up again but fell back with a whimper
of pain. Lupin made toward him, looking concerned, but Ron gasped, "Get
away ftom me, werewolf!"

Lupin stopped dead. Then, with an obvious effort, he turned to Hermione
and said, "How long have you known?"

"Ages," Hermione whispered. "Since I did Professor Snape's essay..."

"He'll be delighted," said Lupin coolly. "He assigned that essay hoping
someone would realize what my symptoms meant.... Did you check the lunar
chart and realize that I was always ill at the full moon? Or did you
realize that the boggart changed into the moon when it saw me?"

"Both," Hermione said quietly.

Lupin forced a laugh.

"You're the cleverest witch of your age I've ever met, Hermione."

"I'm not," Hermione whispered. "If I'd been a bit cleverer, I'd have
told everyone what you are!"

"But they already know," said Lupin. "At least, the staff do."

"Dumbledore hired you when he knew you were a werewolf. Ron gasped. "Is
he mad?"

"Some of the staff thought so," said Lupin. "He had to work very hard to
convince certain teachers that I'm trustworthy --"

"AND HE WAS WRONG!" Harry yelled. "YOUVE BEEN HELPING HIM ALL THE TIME!"
He was pointing at Black, who suddenly crossed to the four-poster bed
and sank onto it, his face hidden in one shaking hand. Crookshanks leapt
up beside him and stepped onto his lap, purring. Ron edged away from
both of them, dragging his leg.

I have not been helping Sirius," said Lupin. "If you'll give me a
chance, I'll explain. Look --"

He separated Harry's, Ron's and Hermione's wands and threw each back to
its owner; Harry caught his, stunned.

There, said Lupin, sticking his own wand back into his belt "You're
armed, we're not. Now will you listen?"

Harry didn't know what to think. Was it a trick?

"If you haven't been helping him," he said, with a furious glance at
Black, "how did you know he was here?"

"The map," said Lupin. "The Marauder's Map. I was in my office examining
it --"

"You know how to work it?" Harry said suspiciously.

"Of course I know how to work it," said Lupin, waving his hand
impatiently. "I helped write it. I'm Moony -- that was my friends'
nickname for me at school."

"You wrote --?"

"The important thing is, I was watching it carefully this evening,
because I had an idea that you, Ron, and Hermione might try and sneak
out of the castle to visit Hagrid before his hippogriff was executed.
And I was right, wasn't I"

He had started to pace up and down, looking at them. Little patches of
dust rose at his feet.

"You might have been wearing your father's old cloak, Harry--"

"How d'you know about the cloak?"

"The number of times I saw James disappearing under it...," said Lupin,
waving an impatient hand again. "The point is, even if you're wearing an
Invisibility Cloak, you still show up on the Marauder's Map. I watched
you cross the grounds and enter Hagrid's hut. Twenty minutes later, you
left Hagrid, and set off back toward the castle. But you were now
accompanied by somebody else."

"What?" said Harry. "No, we weren't!"

I couldn't believe my eyes," said Lupin, still pacing, and ignoring
Harry's interruption. "I thought the map must be malfunctioning. How
could he be with you?" "No one was with us!" said Harry.

"And then I saw another dot, moving fast toward you, labeled Sirius
Black.... I saw him collide with you; I watched as he pulled two of you
into the Whomping Willow --"

"One of us!" Ron said angrily.

"No, Ron," said Lupin. "Two of you."

He had stopped his pacing, his eyes moving over Ron.

"Do you think I could have a look at the rat?" he said evenly.

"What?" said Ron. "What's Scabbers got to do with it?"

"Everything," said Lupin. "Could I see him, please?"

Ron hesitated, then put a hand inside his robes. Scabbers emerged,
thrashing desperately; Ron had to seize his long bald tail to stop him
escaping. Crookshanks stood up on Black's leg and made a soft hissing
noise.

Lupin moved closer to Ron. He seemed to be holding his breath as he
gazed intently at Scabbers.

"What?" Ron said again, holding Scabbers close to him, looking scared.
"What's my rat got to do with anything?"

"That's not a rat," croaked Sirius Black suddenly.

"What d'you mean -- of course he's a rat --"

"No, he's not," said Lupin quietly. "He's a wizard."

"An Animagus," said Black, "by the name of Peter Pettigrew."

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

MOONY, WORMTAIL, PADDFOOT, AND PRONGS

It took a few seconds for the absurdity of this statement to sink in.
Then Ron voiced what Harry was thinking.

"You're both mental."

"Ridiculous!" said Hermione faintly.

"Peter Pettigrew's dead!" said Harry. "He killed him twelve years ago!"
He pointed at Black, whose face twitched convulsively.

"I meant to," he growled, his yellow teeth bared, "but little Peter got
the better of me... not this time, though!"

And Crookshanks was thrown to the floor as Black lunged at Scabbers; Ron
yelled with pain as Black's weight fell on his broken leg.

."Sirius, NO!" Lupin yelled, launching himself forwards and dragging
Black away from Ron again, "WAIT! You can't do it just like that -- they
need to understand -- we've got to explain --"

"We can explain afterwards!" snarled Black, trying to throw Lupin off.
One hand was still clawing the air as it tried to reach Scabbers, who
was squealing like a piglet, scratching Ron's face and neck as he tried
to escape.

"They've -- got -- a -- right -- to -- know -- -everything!" Lupin
panted, still trying to restrain Black. "Ron's kept him as a pet! There
are parts of it even I don't understand, and Harry -- you owe Harry the
truth, Sirius!"

Black stopped struggling, though his hollowed eyes were still fixed on
Scabbers, who was clamped tightly under Ron's bitten, scratched, ad
bleeding hands.

"All right, then," Black said, without taking his eyes off the rat.

"Tell them whatever you like. But make it quick, Remus. I want to commit
the murder I was imprisoned for..."

"You're nutters, both of you," said Ron shakily, looking round at Harry
and Hermione for support. "I've had enough of this. I'm off."

He tried to heave himself up on his good leg, but Lupin raised his wand
again, pointing it at Scabbers.

"You're going to hear me out, Ron," he said quietly. "Just keep a tight
hold on Peter while you listen."

"HE'S NOT PETER, HE'S SCABBERS!" Ron yelled, trying to fore the rat back
into his front pocket, but Scabbers was fighting to hard; Ron swayed and
overbalanced, and Harry caught him am pushed him back down to the bed.
Then, ignoring Black, Harry turned to Lupin.

There were witnesses who saw Pettigrew die," he said. "A whole street
full of them..."

"They didn't see what they thought they saw!" said Black savagely, still
watching Scabbers struggling in Ron's hands.

"Everyone thought Sirius killed Peter," said Lupin, nodding. "I believed
it myself -- until I saw the map tonight. Because the Marauder's map
never lies... Peter's alive. Ron's holding him, Harry."

Harry looked down at Ron, and as their eyes met, they agreed, silently:
Black and Lupin were both out of their minds. Their story made no sense
whatsoever. How could Scabbers be Peter Pettigrew? Azkaban must have
unhinged Black after all -- but why was Lupin playing along with him?

Then Hermione spoke, in a trembling, would-be calm sort of voice, as
though trying to will Professor Lupin to talk sensibly.

"But Professor Lupin... Scabbers can't be Pettigrew... it just can't be
true, you know it can't..."

"Why can't it be true?" Lupin said calmly, as though they were in class,
and Hermione had simply spotted a problem in an experiment with
grindylows.

"Because... because people would know if Peter Pettigrew had been an
Animagus. We did Animagi in class with Professor McGonagall. And I
looked them up when I did my homework -- the Ministry of Magic keeps
tabs on witches and wizards who can become animals; there's a register
showing what animal they become, and their markings and things... and I
went and looked Professor McGonagall up on the register, and there have
been only seven Animagi this century, and Pettigrew's name wasn't on the
list."

Harry had barely had time to marvel inwardly at the effort Hermione put
into her homework, when Lupin started to laugh.

"Light again, Hermione!" he said. "But the Ministry never knew that here
used to be three unregistered Animagi running around Hogwarts."

"I you're going to tell them the story, get a move on, Remus," said
Black, who was still watching Scabbers's every desperate move. "I've
waited twelve years, I'm not going to wait much longer."

"All right... but you'll need to help me, Sirius," said Lupin, I only
know how it began..."

Lupin broke off. There had been a loud creak behind him. The bedroom
door had opened of its own accord. All five of them stared at it. Then
Lupin strode toward it and looked out into the landing.

"No one there..."

"This place is haunted!" said Ron.

"It's not," said Lupin, still looking at the door in a puzzled way. "The
Shrieking Shack was never haunted.... The screams and howls the
villagers used to hear were made by me."

He pushed his graying hair out of his eyes, thought for a moment then
said, "That's where all of this starts -- with my becoming a werewolf,
None of this could have happened if I hadn't been bitter... and if I
hadn't been so foolhardy..."

He looked sober and tired. Ron started to interrupt, but Hermione, said,
"Shh!" She was watching Lupin very intently.

"I as a very small boy when I received the bite. My parents tried
everything, but in those days there was no cure. The potion that
Professor Snape has been making for me is a very recent discovery. It
makes me safe, you see. As long as I take it in the week, preceding the
full moon, I keep my mind when I transform.... I'm able to curl up in my
office, a harmless wolf, and wait for the moon to wane again.

"Before the Wolfsbane Potion was discovered, however, I became a fully
fledged monster once a month. It seemed impossible that I would be able
to come to Hogwarts. Other parents weren't likely to want their children
exposed to me.

"But then Dumbledore became Headmaster, and he was sympathetic. He said
that as long as we took certain precautions, there was no reason I
shouldn't come to school...." Lupin sighed, and looked directly at
Harry. "I told you, months ago, that the Whomping Willow was planted the
year I came to Hogwarts. The truth is that it was planted because I came
to Hogwarts. This house" -- Lupin looked miserably around the room, --
"the tunnel that leads to it -- they were built for my use. Once a
month, I was smuggled out of the castle, into this place, to transform.
The tree was placed at the tunnel mouth to stop anyone coming across me
while I was dangerous."

Harry couldn't see where this story was going, but he was listening
raptly all the same. The only sound apart from Lupin's voice was
Scabbers's frightened squeaking.

"My transformations in those days were -- were terrible. It is very
painful to turn into a werewolf. I was separated from humans to bite, so
I bit and scratched myself instead. The villagers heard the noise and
the screaming and thought they were hearing particularly violent
spirits. Dumbledore encouraged the rumor.... Even now, when the house
has been silent for years, the villagers don't dare approach it...."

"But apart from my transformations, I was happier than I had ever been
in my life. For the first time ever, I had friends, three great friends.
Sirius Black... Peter Pettigrew... and, of course, your father, Harry --
James Potter."

"Now, my three friends could hardly fail to notice that I disappeared
once a month. I made up all sorts of stories. I told them my mother was
ill, and that I had to go home to see her... I was terrified they would
desert me the moment they found out what I was. But of course, they,
like you, Hermione, worked out the truth...."

"And they didn't desert me at all. Instead, they did something for me
that would make my transformations not only bearable, but the best times
of my life. They became Animagi."

"My dad too?" said Harry, astounded.

"Yes, indeed," said Lupin. "It took them the best part of three years to
work out how to do it. Your father and Sirius here were the cleverest
students in the school, and lucky they were, because the Animagus
transformation can go horribly wrong -- one reason the Ministry keeps a
close watch on those attempting to do it. Peter needed all the help he
could get from James and Sirius. Finally, in our fifth year, they
managed it. They could each turn into a different animal at will."

"But how did that help you?" said Hermione, sounding puzzled.

"They couldn't keep me company as humans, so they kept me company as
animals," said Lupin. "A werewolf is only a danger to people. They
sneaked out of the castle every month under James's Invisibility Cloak.
They transformed... Peter, as the smallest, could slip beneath the
Willow's attacking branches and touch the knot that freezes it. They
would then slip down the tunnel and join me. Under their influence, I
became less dangerous. My body was still wolfish, but my mind seemed to
become less so while I was with them."

"Hurry up, Remus," snarled Black, who was still watching Scabbers with a
horrible sort of hunger on his face.

"I'm getting there, Sirius, I'm getting there... well, highly exciting
possibilities were open to us now that we could all transform. Soon we
were leaving the Shrieking Shack and roaming the school grounds and the
village by night. Sirius and James transformed into such large animals,
they were able to keep a werewolf in check. I doubt whether any Hogwarts
students ever found out more about the Hogwarts grounds and Hogsmeade
than we did.... And that's how we came to write the Marauder's Map, and
sign it with our nicknames. Sirius is Padfoot. Peter is Wormtail. James
was Prongs."

"What sort of animal --?" Harry began, but Hermione cut him off.

"That was still really dangerous! Running around in the dark with a
werewolf! What if you'd given the others the slip, and bitten somebody?"

"A thought that still haunts me," said Lupin heavily. "And there were
near misses, many of them. We laughed about them afterwards. We were
young, thoughtless -- carried away with our own cleverness."

I sometimes felt guilty about betraying Dumbledore's trust, of course...
he had admitted me to Hogwarts when no other headmaster would have done
so, and he had no idea I was breaking the rules he had set down for my
own and others' safety. He never knew I had led three fellow students
into becoming Animagi illegally. But I always managed to forget my
guilty feelings every time we sat down to plan our next month's
adventure. And I haven't changed..."

Lupin's face had hardened, and there was self-disgust in his voice. "All
this year, I have been battling with myself, wondering whether I should
tell Dumbledore that Sirius was an Animagus. But I didn't do it. Why?
Because I was too cowardly. It would have meant admitting that I'd
betrayed his trust while I was at school, admitting that I'd led others
along with me... and Dumbledore's trust has meant everything to me. He
let me into Hogwarts as a boy, and he gave me a job when I have been
shunned all my adult life, unable to find paid work because of what I
am. And so I convinced myself that Sirius was getting into the school
using dark arts he learned from Voldemort, that being an Animagus had
nothing to do with it... so, in a way, Snape's been right about me all
along."

"Snape?" said Black harshly, taking his eyes off Scabbers; for the first
time in minutes and looking up at Lupin. "What's Snape got to do with
it?"

"He's here, Sirius," said Lupin heavily. "He's teaching here as well."
He looked up at Harry, Ron, and Hermione.

"Professor Snape was at school with us. He fought very hard against my
appointment to the Defense Against the Dark Arts job. He has been
telling Dumbledore A year that I am not to be trusted. He has his
reasons... you see, Sirius here played a trick on him which nearly
killed him, a trick which involved me --"

Black made a derisive noise.

"It served him right," he sneered. "Sneaking around, trying to find out
what we were up to... hoping he could get us expelled...."

"Severus was very interested in where I went every month." Lupin told
Harry, Ron, and Hermione. "We were in the same year, you know, and we --
er -- didn't like each other very much. He especially disliked James.
Jealous, I think, of James's talent on the Quidditch field... anyway
Snape had seen me crossing the grounds with Madam Pomfrey one evening as
she led me toward the Whomping Willow to transform. Sirius thought it
would be -- er -- amusing, to tell Snape all he had to do was prod the
knot on the tree trunk with a long stick, and he'd be able to get in
after me. Well, of course, Snape tried it -- if he'd got as far as this
house, he'd have met a fully grown werewolf -- but your father, who'd
heard what Sirius had done, went after Snape and pulled him back, at
great risk to his life... Snape glimpsed me, though, at the end of the
tunnel. He was forbidden by Dumbledore to tell anybody, but from that
time on he knew what I was...."

"So that's why Snape doesn't like you," said Harry slowly, "because he
thought you were in on the joke?"

"That's right," sneered a cold voice from the wall behind Lupin.

Severus Snape was pulling off the Invisibility Cloak, his wand pointing,
directly at Lupin.

CHAPTER NINETEEN

THE SERVANT OF LORD VOLDEMORT

Hermione screamed. Black leapt to his feet. Harry felt as though he'd
received a huge electric shock.

"I found this at the base of the Whomping Willow," said Snape, throwing
the cloak aside, careful to keep this wand pointing directly at Lupin's
chest. "Very useful, Potter, I thank you...."

Snape was slightly breathless, but his face was full of suppressed
triumph. "You're wondering, perhaps, how I knew you were here?" he said,
his eyes glittering. "I've just been to your office, Lupin. You forgot
to take your potion tonight, so I took a gobletful along. And very lucky
I did... lucky for me, I mean. Lying on your desk was a certain map. One
glance at it told me all I needed to know. I saw you running along this
passageway and out of sight."

"Severus --" Lupin began, but Snape overrode him.

"I've told the headmaster again and again that you're helping your old
friend Black into the castle, Lupin, and here's the proof. Not even I
dreamed you would have the nerve to use this old place as your hideout
--"

"Severus, you're making a mistake," said Lupin urgently. "You haven't
heard everything -- I can explain -- Sirius is not here to kill Harry
--"

"Two more for Azkaban tonight," said Snape, his eyes now gleaming
fanatically. "I shall be interested to see how Dumbledore takes this....
He was quite convinced you were harmless, you know, Lupin... a tame
werewolf --"

"You fool," said Lupin softly. "Is a schoolboy grudge worth putting an
innocent man back inside Azkaban?"

BANG! Thin, snakelike cords burst from the end of Snape's wand and
twisted themselves around Lupin's mouth, wrists, and ankles; he
overbalanced and fell to the floor, unable to move. With a roar of rage,
Black started toward Snape, but Snape pointed his wand straight between
Black's eyes.

"Give me a reason," he whispered. "Give me a reason to do it, and I
swear I will."

Black stopped dead. It would have been impossible to say which face
showed more hatred.

Harry stood there, paralyzed, not knowing what to do or whom to believe.
He glanced around at Ron and Hermione. Ron looked just as confused as he
did, still fighting to keep hold on the struggling Scabbers. Hermione,
however, took an uncertain step toward Snape and said, in a very
breathless voice, "Professor Snape -- it it wouldn't hurt to hear what
they've got to say, w -- would it?"

"Miss Granger, you are already facing suspension from this school,"
Snape spat. "You, Potter, and Weasley are out-of-bounds, in the company
of a convicted murderer and a werewolf. For once in your life, hold your
tongue."

"But if -- if there was a mistake --"

"KEEP QUIET, YOU STUPID GIRL!" Snape shouted, looking suddenly quite
deranged. "DON'T TALK ABOUT WHAT YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND!" A few sparks
shot out of the end of his wand, which was still pointed at Black's
face. Hermione fell silent.

"Vengeance is very sweet," Snape breathed at Black. "How I hoped I would
be the one to catch you...."

"The joke's on you again, Severus," Black snarled. "As long as this boy
brings his rat up to the castle" -- he jerked his head at Ron -- "I'll
come quietly...."

"Up to the castle?" said Snape silkily. "I don't think we need to go
that far. All I have to do is call the dementors once we get out of the
Willow. They'll be very pleased to see you, Black... pleased enough to
give you a little kiss, I daresay... I --"

What little color there was in Blacks face left it.

"You -you've got to hear me out," he croaked. "The rat -- look at the
rat --"

But there was a mad glint in Snape's eyes that Harry had never seen
before. He seemed beyond reason.

"Come on, all of you," he said. He clicked his fingers, and the ends of
the cords that bound Lupin flew to his hands. "I'll drag the werewolf.
Perhaps the dementors will have a kiss for him too --"

Before he knew what he was doing, Harry had crossed the room in three
strides and blocked the door.

"Get out of the way, Potter, you're in enough trouble already," snarled
Snape. "If I hadn't been here to save your skin --"

"Professor Lupin could have killed me about a hundred times this year,"
Harry said. "I've been alone with him loads of times, having defense
lessons against the dementors. If he was helping Black, why didn't he
just finish me off then?"

"Don't ask me to fathom the way a werewolf's mind works," hissed Snape.
"Get out of the way, Potter."

"YOURE PATHETIC!" Harry yelled. "JUST BECAUSE THEY MADE A FOOL OF YOU AT
SCHOOL YOU WON'T EVEN LISTEN --"

"SILENCE! I WILL NOT BE SPOKEN TO LIKE THAT!" Snape shrieked, looking
madder than ever. "Like father, like son, Potter! I have just saved your
neck; you should be thanking me on bended knee! You would have been well
served if he'd killed you! You'd have died like your father, too
arrogant to believe you might be mistaken in Black -- now get out of the
way, or I will make you. GET OUT OF THE WAY, POTTER!"

Harry made up his mind in a split second. Before Snape could take even
one step toward him, he had raised his wand.

"Expelliarmus!" he yelled -- except that his wasn't the only voice that
shouted. There was a blast that made the door rattle on its hinges;
Snape was lifted off his feet and slammed into the wall, then slid down
it to the floor, a trickle of blood oozing from under his hair. He had
been knocked out.

Harry looked around. Both Ron and Hermione had tried to disarm Snape at
exactly the same moment. Snape's wand soared in a high arc and landed on
the bed next to Crookshanks.

"You shouldn't have done that," said Black, looking at Harry.

"You should have left him to me...."

Harry avoided Black's eyes. He wasn't sure, even now, that he'd done the
right thing.

"We attacked a teacher... We attacked a teacher..." Hermione whimpered,
staring at the lifeless Snape with frightened eyes. "Oh, we're going to
be in so much trouble --"

Lupin was struggling against his bonds. Black bent down quickly and
untied him. Lupin straightened up, rubbing his arms where the ropes had
cut into them.

"Thank you, Harry," he said.

"I'm still not saying I believe you," he told Lupin.

"Then it's time we offered you some proof," said Lupin. "You, boy --
give me Peter, please. Now."

Ron clutched Scabbers closer to his chest.

"Come off it," he said weakly. "Are you trying to say he broke out of
Azkaban just to get his hands on Scabbers? I mean..." He looked up at
Harry and Hermione for support, "Okay, say Pettigrew could turn into a
rat -- there are millions of rats -- how's he supposed to know which one
he's after if he was locked up in Azkaban?"

"You know, Sirius, that's a fair question," said Lupin, turning to Black
and frowning slightly. "How did you find out where he was?"

Black put one of his clawlike hands inside his robes and took out a
crumpled piece of paper, which he smoothed flat and held out to show the
others.

It was the photograph of Ron and his family that had appeared in the
Daily Prophet the previous summer, and there, on Ron's shoulder, was
Scabbers.

"How did you get this?" Lupin asked Black, thunderstruck.

"Fudge," said Black. "When he came to inspect Azkaban last year, he gave
me his paper. And there was Peter, on the front page on this boy's
shoulder... I knew him at once... how many times had I seen him
transform? And the caption said the boy would be going back to
Hogwarts... to where Harry was...

"My God," said Lupin softly, staring from Scabbers to the picture in the
paper and back again. "His front paw..."

"What about it?" said Ron defiantly.

"He's got a toe missing," said Black.

"Of course," Lupin breathed. "So simple... so brilliant... he cut it off
himself?"

"Just before he transformed," said Black. "When I cornered him, he
yelled for the whole street to hear that I'd betrayed Lily and James.
Then, before I could curse him, he blew apart the street with the wand
behind his back, killed everyone within twenty feet of himself -- and
sped down into the sewer with the other rats...."

"Didn't you ever hear, Ron?" said Lupin. "The biggest bit of Peter they
found was his finger."

"Look, Scabbers probably had a fight with another rat or something! He's
been in my family for ages, right --"

"Twelve years, in fact," said Lupin. "Didn't you ever wonder why he was
living so long?"

"We -- we've been taking good care of him!" said Ron.

"Not looking too good at the moment, though, is he?" said Lupin. "I'd
guess he's been losing weight ever since he heard Sirius was on the
loose again...."

"He's been scared of that mad cat!" said Ron, nodding toward
Crookshanks, who was still purring on the bed.

But that wasn't right, Harry thought suddenly... Scabbers had been
looking ill before he met Crookshanks... ever since Ron's return from
Egypt... since the time when Black had escaped....

"This cat isn't mad," said Black hoarsely. He reached out a bony hand
and stroked Crookshanks's fluffy head. "He's the most intelligent of his
kind I've ever met. He recognized Peter for what he was right away. And
when he met me, he knew I was no dog. It was a while before he trusted
me.... Finally, I managed to communicate to him what I was after, and
he's been helping me. .. "What do you mean?" breathed Hermione.

"He tried to bring Peter to me, but couldn't... so he stole the
passwords into Gryffindor Tower for me.... As I understand it, he took
them from a boy's bedside table...."

Harry's brain seemed to be sagging under the weight of what he was
hearing. It was absurd... and yet...

"But Peter got wind of what was going on and ran for it." croaked Black.
"This cat -- Crookshanks, did you call him? -- told me Peter had left
blood on the sheets.... I supposed he bit himself... Well, faking his
own death had worked once."

These words jolted Harry to his senses.

"And why did he fake his death?" he said furiously. "Because he knew you
were about to kill him like you killed my parents!"

"No," said Lupin, "Harry-"

"And now you've come to finish him off!"

"Yes, I have," said Black, with an evil look at Scabbers.

"Then I should've let Snape take you!" Harry shouted.

"Harry," said Lupin hurriedly, "don't you see? All this time we've
thought Sirius betrayed your parents, and Peter tracked him down -- but
it was the other way around, don't you see? Peter betrayed your mother
and father -- Sirius tracked Peter down --"

"THAT'S NOT TRUE!" Harry yelled. "HE WAS THEIR SECRET-KEEPER! HE SAID SO
BEFORE YOU TURNED UP. HE SAID HE KILLED THEM!"

He was pointing at Black, who shook his head slowly; the sunken eyes
were suddenly over bright.

"Harry... I as good as killed them," he croaked. "I persuaded Lily and
James to change to Peter at the last moment, persuaded them to use him
as Secret-Keeper instead of me.... I'm to blame, I know it.... The night
they died, I'd arranged to check on Peter, make sure he was still safe,
but when I arrived at his hiding place, he'd gone. Yet there was no sign
of a struggle. It didn't feel right. I was scared. I set out for your
parents' house straight away. And when I saw their house, destroyed, and
their bodies... I realized what Peter must've done... what I'd done...."

His voice broke. He turned away.

"Enough of this," said Lupin, and there was a steely note in his voice
Harry had never heard before. "There's one certain way to prove what
really happened. Ron, give me that rat."

"What are you going to do with him if I give him to you?" Ron asked
Lupin tensely.

"Force him to show himself," said Lupin. "If he really is a rat, it
won't hurt him."

Ron hesitated. Then at long last, he held out Scabbers and Lupin took
him. Scabbers began to squeak without stopping, twisting and turning,
his tiny black eyes bulging in his head. "Ready, Sirius?" said Lupin.

Black had already retrieved Snape's wand from the bed. He approached
Lupin and the struggling rat, and his wet eyes suddenly seemed to be
burning in his face.

"Together?" he said quietly.

"I think so,,, said Lupin, holding Scabbers tightly in one hand and his
wand in the other. "On the count of three. One -- two -- THREE!"

A flash of blue-white light erupted from both wands; for a moment,
Scabbers was frozen in midair, his small gray form twisting madly -- Ron
yelled -- the rat fell and hit the floor. There was another blinding
flash of light and then --

It was like watching a speeded-up film of a growing tree. A head was
shooting upward from the ground; limbs were sprouting; a moment later, a
man was standing where Scabbers had been, cringing and wringing his
hands. Crookshanks was spitting and snarling on the bed; the hair on his
back was standing up.

He was a very short man, hardly taller than Harry and Hermione. His
thin, colorless hair was unkempt and there was a large bald patch on
top. He had the shrunken appearance of a plump man who has lost a lot of
weight in a short time. His skin looked grubby, almost like Scabbers's
fur, and something of the rat lingered around his pointed nose and his
very small, watery eyes. He looked around at them all, his breathing
fast and shallow. Harry saw his eyes dart to the door and back again.

"Well, hello, Peter," said Lupin pleasantly, as though rats frequently
erupted into old school friends around him. "Long time, no see.

"S -- Sirius... R -- Remus..." Even Pettigrew's voice was squeaky.
Again, his eyes darted toward the door. "My friends... my old
friends..."

Black's wand arm rose, but Lupin seized him around the wrist, gave him a
warning took, then turned again to Pettigrew, his voice light and
casual.

"We've been having a little chat, Peter, about what happened the night
Lily and James died. You might have missed the finer points while you
were squeaking around down there on the bed --"

"Remus," gasped Pettigrew, and Harry could see beads of sweat breaking
out over his pasty face, "you don't believe him, do you...? He tried to
kill me, Remus...."

"So we've heard," said Lupin, more coldly. "I'd like to clear up one or
two little matters with you, Peter, if you'll be so --"

"He's come to try and kill me again!" Pettigrew squeaked suddenly,
pointing at Black, and Harry saw that he used his middle finger, because
his index was missing. "He killed Lily and James and now he's going to
kill me too.... You've got to help me, Remus...."

Black's face looked more skull-like than ever as he stared at Pettigrew
with his fathomless eyes.

"No one's going to try and kill you until we've sorted a few things
out," said Lupin.

"Sorted things out?" squealed Pettigrew, looking wildly about him once
more, eyes taking in the boarded windows and, again' the only door. "I
knew he'd come after me! I knew he'd be back for me! I've been waiting
for this for twelve years!"

"You knew Sirius was going to break out of Azkaban?" said Lupin, his
brow furrowed. "When nobody has ever done it before?"

"He's got dark powers the rest of us can only dream of!" Pettigrew
shouted shrilly. "How else did he get out of there? I suppose
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named taught him a few tricks!"

Black started to laugh, a horrible, mirthless laugh that filled the
whole room.

"Voldemort, teach me tricks?" he said.

Pettigrew flinched as though Black had brandished a whip at him.

"What, scared to hear your old master's name?" said Black. I don't blame
you, Peter. His lot aren't very happy with you, are they?"

"Don't know what you mean, Sirius --" muttered Pettigrew, his breathing
faster than ever. His whole face was shining with sweat now.

"You haven't been hiding from me for twelve years," said Black. "You've
been hiding from Voldemort's old supporters. I heard things in Azkaban,
Peter... They all think you're dead, or you'd have to answer to them....
I've heard them screaming all sorts of things in their sleep. Sounds
like they think the double-crosser double-crossed them. Voldemort went
to the Potters' on your information... and Voldemort met his downfall
there. And not all Voldemort's supporters ended up in Azkaban, did they?
There are still plenty out here, biding their time, pretending they've
seen the error of their ways.

If they ever got wind that you were still alive, Peter --"

"Don't know... what you're talking about...," said Pettigrew again, more
shrilly than ever. He wiped his face on his sleeve and looked up at
Lupin. "You don't believe this -- this madness, Remus --"

"I must admit, Peter, I have difficulty in understanding why an innocent
man would want to spend twelve years as a rat," said Lupin evenly.

"Innocent, but scared!" squealed Pettigrew. "If Voldemort's supporters
were after me, it was because I put one of their best men in Azkaban --
the spy, Sirius Black!"

Black's face contorted.

"How dare you," he growled, sounding suddenly like the bearsized dog he
had been. I, a spy for Voldemort? When did I ever sneak around people
who were stronger and more powerful than myself? But you, Peter -- I'll
never understand why I didn't see you were the spy from the start. You
always liked big friends who'd look after you, didn't you? It used to be
us... me and Remus... and James....

Pettigrew wiped his face again; he was almost panting for breath.

"Me, a spy... must be out of your mind... never... don't know how you
can say such a --"

"Lily and James only made you Secret-Keeper because I suggested it,"
Black hissed, so venomously that Pettigrew took a step backward. "I
thought it was the perfect plan... a bluff... Voldemort would be sure to
come after me, would never dream they'd use a weak, talentless thing
like you.... It must have been the finest moment of your miserable life,
telling Voldemort you could hand him the Potters."

Pettigrew was muttering distractedly; Harry caught words like
"far-fetched" and "lunacy," but he couldn't help paying more attention
to the ashen color of Pettigrew's face and the way his eyes continued to
dart toward the windows and door.

"Professor Lupin?" said Hermione timidly. "Can -- can I say something?"

"Certainly, Hermione," said Lupin courteously.

"Well -- Scabbers -- I mean, this -- this man -- he's been sleeping in
Harry's dormitory for three years. If he's working for You-Know-Who, how
come he never tried to hurt Harry before now?"

"There!" said Pettigrew shrilly, pointing at Ron with his maimed hand.
"Thank you! You see, Remus? I have never hurt a hair of Harry's head!
Why should I?"

"I'll tell you why," said Black. "Because you never did anything for
anyone unless you could see what was in it for you. Voldemort's been in
hiding for fifteen years, they say he's half dead. You weren't about to
commit murder right under Albus Dumbledore's nose, for a wreck of a
wizard who'd lost all of his power, were you? You'd want to be quite
sure he was the biggest bully in the playground before you went back to
him, wouldn't you? Why else did you find a wizard family to take you in?
Keeping an ear out for news, weren't YOU, Peter? Just in case your old
protector regained strength, and it was safe to rejoin him...."

Pettigrew opened his mouth and closed it several times. He seemed to
have lost the ability to talk.

"Er -- Mr. Black -- Sirius?" said Hermione.

Black jumped at being addressed like this and stared at Hermione as
though he had never seen anything quite like her.

"If you don't mind me asking, how -- how did you get out of Azkaban, if
you didn't use Dark Magic?"

"Thank you!" gasped Pettigrew, nodding frantically at her. "Exactly!
Precisely what I --"

But Lupin silenced him with a look. Black was frowning slightly at
Hermione, but not as though he were annoyed with her. He seemed to be
pondering his answer.

"I don't know how I did it," he said slowly. "I think the only reason I
never lost my mind is that I knew I was innocent. That wasn't a happy
thought, so the dementors couldn't suck it out of me... but it kept me
sane and knowing who I am... helped me keep my powers... so when it all
became ... too much... I could transform in my cell... become a dog.
Dementors can't see, you know...." He swallowed. "They feel their way
toward people by feeding off their emotions.... They could tell that my
feelings were less -- less human, less complex when I was a dog... but
they thought, of course, that I was losing my mind like everyone else in
there, so it didn't trouble them. But I was weak, very weak, and I had
no hope of driving them away from me without a wand...."

"But then I saw Peter in that picture... I realized he was at Hogwarts
with Harry... perfectly positioned to act, if one hint reached his ears
that the Dark Side was gathering strength again...."

Pettigrew was shaking his head, mouthing noiselessly, but staring all
the while at Black as though hypnotized.

"... ready to strike at the moment he could be sure of allies... and to
deliver the last Potter to them. if he gave them Harry, who'd dare say
he'd betrayed Lord Voldemort? He'd be welcomed back with honors....

"So you see, I had to do something. I was the only one who knew Peter
was still alive...."

Harry remembered what Mr. Weasley had told Mrs. Wealsey. "The guards say
he's been talking in his sleep... always the same words... 'He's at
Hogwarts.'"

"It was as if someone had lit a fire In my head, and the dementors
couldn't destroy it.... It wasn't a happy feeling... it was an
obsession... but it gave me strength, it cleared my mind. So, one night
when they opened my door to bring food, I slipped past them as a dog....
It's so much harder for them to sense animal emotions that they were
confused.... I was thin, very thin... thin enough to slip through the
bars.... I swam as a dog back to the mainland.... I journeyed north and
slipped into the Hogwarts grounds as a dog. I've been living in the
forest ever since, except when I came to watch the Quidditch, of course.
You fly as well as your father did, Harry...."

He looked at Harry, who did not look away.

"Believe me," croaked Black. "Believe me, Harry. I never betrayed James
and Lily. I would have died before I betrayed them."

And at long last, Harry believed him. Throat too tight to speak, he
nodded.

"No!"

Pettigrew had fallen to his knees as though Harry's nod had been his own
death sentence. He shuffled forward on his knees, groveling, his hands
clasped in front of him as though praying.

"Sirius -- it's me... it's Peter... your friend... you wouldn't --"

Black kicked out and Pettigrew recoiled.

"There's enough filth on my robes without you touching them," said
Black.

"Remus!" Pettigrew squeaked, turning to Lupin instead, writhing
imploringly in front of him. "You don't believe this wouldn't Sirius
have told you they'd changed the plan?"

"Not if he thought I was the spy, Peter," said Lupin. "I assume that's
why you didn't tell me, Sirius?" he said casually over Pettigrews head.

"Forgive me, Remus," said Black.

"Not at all, Padfoot, old friend," said Lupin, who was now rolling up
his sleeves. "And will you, in turn, forgive me for believing you were
the spy?"

"Of course," said Black, and the ghost of a grin flitted across his
gaunt face. He, too, began rolling up his sleeves. "Shall we kill him
together?"

"Yes, I think so," said Lupin grimly.

"You wouldn't... you won't...," gasped Pettigrew. And he scrambled
around to Ron.

"Ron... haven't I been a good friend... a good pet? You won't let them
kill me, Ron, will you... you're on my side, aren't you.

But Ron was staring at Pettigrew with the utmost revulsion.

"I let you sleep in my bed!" he said.

"Kind boy... kind master..." Pettigrew crawled toward Ron "You won't let
them do it.... I was your rat.... I was a good pet...."

"If you made a better rat than a human, it's not much to boast about,
Peter," said Black harshly. Ron, going still paler with pain, wrenched
his broken leg out of Pettigrew's reach. Pettigrew turned on his knees,
staggered forward, and seized the hem of Hermione's robes.

"Sweet girl... clever girl... you -- you won't let them.... Help me...."

Hermione pulled her robes out of Pettigrew's clutching hands and backed
away against the wall, looking horrified.

Pettigrew knelt, trembling uncontrollably, and-turned his head slowly
toward Harry.

"Harry... Harry... you look just like your father... just like him...."

"HOW DARE YOU SPEAK TO HARRY?" roared Black. "HOW DARE YOU FACE HIM? HOW
DARE YOU TALK ABOUT JAMES IN FRONT OF HIM?"

"Harry," whispered Pettigrew, shuffling toward him, hands outstretched.
"Harry, James wouldn't have wanted me killed.... James would have
understood, Harry... he would have shown me mercy..."

Both Black and Lupin strode forward, seized Pettigrew's shoulders, and
threw him backward onto the floor. He sat there, twitching with terror,
staring up at them.

"You sold Lily and James to Voldemort," said Black, who was shaking too.
"Do you deny it?"

Pettigrew burst into tears. It was horrible to watch, like an oversized,
balding baby, cowering on the floor.

"Sirius, Sirius, what could I have done? The Dark Lord... you have no
idea... he has weapons you can't imagine.... I was scared, Sirius, I was
never brave like you and Remus and James. I never meant it to happen....
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named forced me --"

"DON'T LIE!" bellowed Black. "YOU'D BEEN PASSING INFORMATION TO HIM FOR
A YEAR BEFORE LILY AND JAMES DIED! YOU WERE HIS SPY!"

"He -- he was taking over everywhere!" gasped Pettigrew. "Wh -- what was
there to be gained by refusing him?"

"What was there to be gained by fighting the most evil wizard who has
ever existed?" said Black, with a terrible fury in his face. "Only
innocent lives, Peter!"

"You don't understand!" whined Pettigrew. "He would have killed me,
Sirius!"

"THEN YOU SHOULD HAVE DIED!" roared Black. "DIED RATHER THAN BETRAY YOUR
FRIENDS, AS WE WOULD HAVE DONE FOR YOU!"

Black and Lupin stood shoulder to shoulder, wands raised.

"You should have realized," said Lupin quietly, "if Voldemort didn't
kill you, we would. Good-bye, Peter."

Hermione covered her face with her hands and turned to the wall.

"NO!" Harry yelled. He ran forward, placing himself in front Pettigrew,
facing the wands. "You can't kill him," he said breathlessly. "You
can't."

Black and Lupin both looked staggered.

"Harry, this piece of vermin is the reason you have no parents," Black
snarled. "This cringing bit of filth would have seen you die too,
without turning a hair. You heard him. His own stinking skin meant more
to him than your whole family."

"I know," Harry panted. "We'll take him up to the castle. We'll hand him
over to the dementors.... He can go to Azkaban... but don't kill him."

"Harry!" gasped Pettigrew, and he flung his arms around Harry's knees.
"You -- thank you -- it's more than I deserve -- thank you --"

"Get off me," Harry spat, throwing Pettigrew's hands off him in disgust.
"I'm not doing this for you. I'm doing it because -- I don't reckon my
dad would've wanted them to become killers -- just for you."

No one moved or made a sound except Pettigrew, whose breath was coming
in wheezes as he clutched his chest. Black and Lupin were looking at
each other. Then, with one movement, they lowered their wands.

"You're the only person who has the right to decide, Harry," said Black.
"But think... think what he did...."

"He can go to Azkaban," Harry repeated. "If anyone deserves that place,
he does...."

Pettigrew was still wheezing behind him.

"Very well," said Lupin. "Stand aside, Harry."

Harry hesitated.

"I'm going to tie him up," said Lupin. "That's all, I swear."

Harry stepped out of the way. Thin cords shot from Lupin's wand this
time, and next moment, Pettigrew was wriggling on the floor, bound and
gagged.

"But if you transform, Peter," growled Black, his own wand pointing at
Pettigrew too, "we will kill you. You agree, Harry?"

Harry looked down at the pitiful figure on the floor and nodded so that
Pettigrew could see him.

"Right," said Lupin, suddenly businesslike. "Ron, I can't mend bones
nearly as well as Madam Pomfrey, so I think it's best if we just strap
your leg up until we can get you to the hospital wing."

He hurried over to Ron, bent down, tapped Ron's leg with his wand, and
muttered, "Ferula." Bandages spun up Ron's leg, strapping it tightly to
a splint. Lupin helped him to his feet; Ron put his weight gingerly on
the leg and didn't wince.

"That's better," he said. "Thanks."

"What about Professor Snape?" said Hermione in a small voice, looking
down at Snape's prone figure.

"There's nothing seriously wrong with him," said Lupin, bending over
Snape and checking his pulse. "You were just a little --
overenthusiastic. Still out cold. Er -- perhaps it will be best if we
don't revive him until we're safety back in the castle. We can take him
like this...."

He muttered, "Mobilicorpus." As though invisible strings were tied to
Snape's wrists, neck, and knees, he was pulled into a standing position,
head still lolling unpleasantly, like a grotesque puppet. He hung a few
inches above the ground, his limp feet dangling. Lupin picked up the
Invisibility Cloak and tucked it safely into his pocket.

"And two of us should be chained to this," said Black, nudging Pettigrew
with his toe. "Just to make sure."

"I'll do it," said Lupin.

"And me," said Ron savagely, limping forward.

Black conjured heavy manacles from thin air; soon Pettigrew was upright
again, left arm chained to Lupin's right, right arm to Ron's left. Ron's
face was set. He seemed to have taken Scabbers's true identity as a
personal insult. Crookshanks leapt lightly off the bed and led the way
out of the room, his bottlebrush tail held jauntily high.

CHAPTER TWENTY

THE DEMENTOR'S KISS

Harry had never been part of a stranger group. Crookshanks led the way
down the stairs; Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron went next, looking like
entrants in a six-legged race. Next came Professor Snape, drifting
creepily along, his toes hitting each stair as they descended, held up
by his own wand, which was being pointed at him by Sirius. Harry and
Hermione brought up the rear.

Getting back into the tunnel was difficult. Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron
had to turn sideways to manage it; Lupin still had Pettigrew covered
with his wand. Harry could see them edging awkwardly along the tunnel in
single file. Crookshanks was still in the lead. Harry went right after
Black, who was still making Snape drift along ahead of them; he kept
bumping his lolling head on the low ceiling. Harry had the impression
Black was making no effort to prevent this.

"You know what this means?" Black said abruptly to Harry as they made
their slow progress along the tunnel. "Turning Pettigrew in?"

"You' re free," said Harry.

"Yes...," said Black. "But I'm also -- I don't know if anyone ever told
you -- I'm your godfather."

"Yeah, I knew that," said Harry.

"Well... your parents appointed me your guardian," said Black stiffly.
"If anything happened to them..."

Harry waited. Did Black mean what he thought he meant?

"I'll understand, of course, if you want to stay with your aunt and
uncle," said Black. "But... well... think about it. Once my name's
cleared... if you wanted a... a different home..."

Some sort of explosion took place in the pit of Harry's stomach.

"What -- live with you?" he said, accidentally cracking his head on a
bit of rock protruding from the ceiling. "Leave the Dursleys?"

"Of course, I thought you wouldn't want to," said Black quickly. "I
understand, I just thought I'd --"

"Are you insane?" said Harry, his voice easily as croaky as Black's.

"Of course I want to leave the Dursleys! Have you got a house? When can
I move in?"

Black turned right around to look at him; Snape's head was scraping the
ceiling but Black didn't seem to care.

"You want to?" he said. "You mean it?"

"Yeah, I mean it!" said Harry.

Black's gaunt face broke into the first true smile Harry had seen upon
it. The difference it made was startling, as though a person ten years
younger were shining through the starved mask; for a moment, he was
recognizable as the man who had laughed at Harry's parents' wedding.

They did not speak again until they had reached the end of the tunnel.
Crookshanks darted up first; he had evidently pressed his paw to the
knot on the trunk, because Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron clambered upward
without any sound of savaging branches.

Black saw Snape up through the hole, then stood back for Harry and
Hermione to pass. At last, all of them were out.

The grounds were very dark now; the only light came from the distant
windows of the castle. Without a word, they set off. Pettigrew was still
wheezing and occasionally whimpering. Harry's mind was buzzing. He was
going to leave the Dursleys. He was going to live with Sirius Black, his
parents' best friend.... He felt dazed.... What would happen when he
told the Dursleys he was going to live with the convict they'd seen on
television... !

"One wrong move, Peter," said Lupin threateningly ahead. His wand was
still pointed sideways at Pettigrew's chest.

Silently they tramped through the grounds, the castle lights growing
slowly larger. Snape was still drifting weirdly ahead of Black, his chin
bumping on his chest. And then -

A cloud shifted. There were suddenly dim shadows on the ground. Their
party was bathed in moonlight.

Snape collided with Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron, who had stopped abruptly.
Black froze. He flung out one arm to make Harry and Hermione stop.

Harry could see Lupin's silhouette. He had gone rigid. Then his limbs
began to shake.

"Oh, my --" Hermione gasped. "He didn't take his potion tonight! He's
not safe!"

"Run," Black whispered. "Run. Now."

But Harry couldn't run. Ron was chained to Pettigrew and Lupin. He leapt
forward but Black caught him around the chest and threw him back.

"Leave it to me -- RUN!"

There was a terrible snarling noise. Lupin's head was lengthening. So
was his body. His shoulders were hunching. Hair was sprouting visibly on
his face and hands, which were curling into clawed paws. Crookshanks's
hair was on end again; he was backing away --

As the werewolf reared, snapping its long jaws, Sirius disappeared from
Harry's side. He had transformed. The enormous, bearlike dog bounded
forward. As the werewolf wrenched itself free of the manacle binding it,
the dog seized it about the neck and pulled it backward, away from Ron
and Pettigrew. They were locked, jaw to jaw, claws ripping at each other.

Harry stood, transfixed by the sight, too intent upon the battle to
notice anything else. It was Hermione's scream that alerted him --

Pettigrew had dived for Lupin's dropped wand. Ron, unsteady on his
bandaged leg, fell. There was a bang, a burst of light -- and Ron lay
motionless on the ground. Another bang -- Crookshanks flew into the air
and back to the earth in a heap.

"Expelliarmus." Harry yelled, pointing his own wand at Pettigrew;
Lupin's wand flew high into the air and out of sight. "Stay where you
are!" Harry shouted, running forward.

Too late. Pettigrew had transformed. Harry saw his bald tail whip
through the manacle on Ron's outstretched arm and heard a scurrying
through the grass.

There was a howl and a rumbling growl; Harry turned to see the werewolf
taking flight; it was galloping into the forest --

"Sirius, he's gone, Pettigrew transformed!" Harry yelled.

Black was bleeding; there were gashes across his muzzle and back, but at
Harry's words he scrambled up again, and in an instant, the sound of his
paws faded to silence as he pounded away across the grounds.

Harry and Hermione dashed over to Ron.

"What did he do to him?" Hermione whispered. Ron's eyes were only
half-closed, his mouth hung open; he was definitely alive, they could
hear him breathing, but he didn't seem to recognize them.

"I don't know...."

Harry looked desperately around. Black and Lupin both gone... they had
no one but Snape for company, still hanging, unconscious, in midair.

"We'd better get them up to the castle and tell someone," said Harry,
pushing his hair out of his eyes, trying to think straight. "Come --"

But then, from beyond the range of their vision, they heard a yelping, a
whining: a dog in pain....

"Sirius," Harry muttered, staring into the darkness.

He had a moment's indecision, but there was nothing they could do for
Ron at the moment, and by the sound of it, Black was in trouble --

Harry set off at a run, Hermione right behind him. The yelping seemed to
be coming from the ground near the edge of the lake. They pelted toward
it, and Harry, running flat out, felt the cold without realizing what it
must mean -

The yelping stopped abruptly. As they reached the lakeshore, they saw
why -- Sirius had turned back into a man. He was crouched on all fours,
his hands over his head.

'Nooo," he moaned. 'Nooo... please...."

And then Harry saw them. Dementors, at least a hundred of them, gliding
in a black mass around the lake toward them. He spun around, the
familiar, icy cold penetrating his insides, fog starting to obscure his
vision; more were appearing out of the darkness on every side; they were
encircling them....

"Herrnione, think of something happy!" Harry yelled, raising his wand,
blinking furiously to try and clear his vision, shaking his head to rid
it of the faint screaming that had started inside it --

I'm going to live with my godfather. I'm leaving the Dursleys.

He forced himself to think of Black, and only Black, and began to chant:
"Expecto patronum! Expecto patronum!"

Black gave a shudder, rolled over, and lay motionless on the ground,
pale as death.

He'll be all right. I'm going to go and live with him.

"Expecto patronum! Hermione, help me! Expecto patronum!"

"Expecto --" Hermione whispered, "expecto -- expecto --"

But she couldn't do it. The dementors were closing in, barely ten feet
from them. They formed a solid wall around Harry and Hermione, and were
getting closer....

"EXPECTO PATRONUM!" Harry yelled, trying to blot the screaming from his
ears. "EXPECTO PATRONUM!"

A thin wisp of silver escaped his wand and hovered like mist before him.
At the same moment, Harry felt Hermione collapse next to him. He was
alone... completely alone....

"Expecto -- expecto patronum --"

Harry felt his knees hit the cold grass. Fog was clouding his eyes. With
a huge effort, he fought to remember -- Sirius was innocent -- innocent
-- We'll be okay -- I' mgoing to live with him --

"Ex ecto patronum!" he gasped.

By the feeble light of his formless Patronus, He saw a dementor halt,
very close to him. It couldn't walk through the cloud of silver mist
Harry had conjured. A dead, slimy hand slid out from under the cloak. It
made a gesture as though to sweep the Patronus aside.

"No -- no --" Harry gasped. "He's innocent... expecto expecto patronum
--"

He could feet them watching him, hear their rattling breath like an evil
wind around him. The nearest dementor seemed to be considering him. Then
it raised both its rotting hands -- and lowered its hood.

Where there should have been eyes, there was only thin, gray scabbed
skin, stretched blankly over empty sockets. But there was a mouth... a
gaping, shapeless hole, sucking the air with the sound of a death
rattle.

A paralyzing terror filled Harry so that he couldn't move or speak. His
Patronus flickered and died.

White fog was blinding him. He had to fight... expecto patronum ... he
couldn't see... and in the distance, he heard the familiar screaming...
expecto patronum... he groped in the mist for Sirius, and found his
arm... they weren't going to take him....

But a pair of strong, clammy hands suddenly attached themselves around
Harry's neck. They were forcing his face upward.... He could feel its
breath.... It was going to get rid of him first.... He could feel its
putrid breath.... His mother was screaming in his ears.... She was going
to be the last thing he ever heard --

And then, through the fog that was drowning him, he thought he saw a
silvery light growing brighter and brighter... He felt himself fall
forward onto the grass.... Facedown, too weak to move, sick and shaking,
Harry opened his eyes. The dementor must have released him. The blinding
light was illuminating the grass around him.... The screaming had
stopped, the cold was ebbing away...

Something was driving the dementors back.... It was circling around him
and Black and Hermione.... They were leaving....

The air was warm again....

With every ounce of strength he could muster, Harry raised his head a
few inches and saw an animal amid the light, galloping away across the
lake.... Eyes blurred with sweat, Harry tried to make out what it
was.... It was as bright as a unicorn.... Fighting to stay conscious,
Harry watched it canter to a halt as it reached the opposite shore. For
a moment, Harry saw, by its brightness, somebody welcoming it back...
raising his hand to pat it... someone who looked strangely familiar ...
but it couldn't be...

Harry didn't understand. He couldn't think anymore. He felt the last of
his strength leave him, and his head hit the ground as he fainted.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

HERMIONE'S SECRET

Shocking business... shocking... miracle none of them died... never
heard the like... by thunder, it was lucky you were there, Snape...."

"Thank you, Minister."

"Order of Merlin, Second Class, I'd say. First Class, if I can wangle
it!"

"Thank you very much indeed, Minister."

"Nasty cut you've got there.... Black's work, I suppose?"

"As a matter of fact, it was Potter, Weasley, and Granger, Minister...."

"No!"

"Black had bewitched them, I saw it immediately. A Confundus Charm, to
judge by their behavior. They seemed to think there was a possibility he
was innocent. They weren't responsible for their actions. On the other
hand, their interference might have permitted Black to escape.... They
obviously thought they were going to catch Black single-handed. They've
got away with a great deal before now... I'm afraid it's given them a
rather high opinion of themselves... and of course Potter has always
been allowed an extraordinary amount of license by the headmaster --"

"Ah, well, Snape... Harry Potter, you know... we've all got a bit of a
blind spot where he's concerned."

"And yet -- is it good for him to be given so much special treatment?
Personally, I try and treat him like any other student. And any other
student would be suspended -- at the very least -- for leading his
friends into such danger. Consider, Minister -- against all school rules
-- after all the precautions put in place for his protection --
out-of-bounds, at night, consorting with a werewolf and a murderer --
and I have reason to believe he has been visiting Hogsmeade illegally
too --"

"Well, well... we shall see, Snape, we shall see.... The boy has
undoubtedly been foolish...."

Harry lay listening with his eyes tight shut. He felt very groggy. The
words he was hearing seemed to be traveling very slowly from his ears to
his brain, so that it was difficult to understand.... His limbs felt
like lead; his eyelids too heavy to lift.... He wanted to lie here, on
this comfortable bed, forever....

"What amazes me most is the behavior of the dementors... you've really
no idea what made them retreat, Snape?"

"No, Minister... by the time I had come 'round they were heading back to
their positions at the entrances...."

"Extraordinary. And yet Black, and Harry, and the girl --"

"All unconscious by the time I reached them. I bound and gagged Black,
naturally, conjured stretchers, and brought them all straight back to
the castle."

There was a pause. Harry's brain seemed to be moving a little faster,
and as it did, a gnawing sensation grew in the pit of his stomach....

He opened his eyes.

Everything was slightly blurred. Somebody had removed his glasses. He
was lying in the dark hospital wing. At the very end of the ward, he
could make out Madam Pomfrey with her back to him, bending over a bed.
Harry squinted. Ron's red hair was visible beneath Madam Pomfrey's arm.

Harry moved his head over on the pillow. In the bed to his right lay
Hermione. Moonlight was falling across her bed. Her eyes were open too.
She looked petrified, and when she saw that Harry was awake, pressed a
finger to her lips, then pointed to the hospital wing door. It was ajar,
and the voices of Cornelius Fudge and Snape were coming through it from
the corridor outside.

Madam Pomfrey now came walking briskly up the dark ward to Harry's bed.
He turned to took at her. She was carrying the largest block of
chocolate he had ever seen in his life. It looked like a small boulder.

"Ah, you're awake!" she said briskly. She placed the chocolate on
Harry's bedside table and began breaking it apart with a small hammer.

"How's Ron?" said Harry and Hermione together.

"He'll live, said Madam Pomfrey grimly. "As for you two you'll be
staying here until I'm satisfied you're -- Potter, what do you think
you're doing?"

Harry was sitting up, putting his glasses back on, and picking up his
wand.

"I need to see the headmaster," he said.

"Potter," said Madam Pomfrey soothingly, "it's all right. They've got
Black. He's locked away upstairs. The dementors will be performing the
kiss any moment now --"

"WHAT?"

Harry jumped up out of bed; Hermione had done the same. But his shout
had been heard in the corridor outside; next second, Cornelius Fudge and
Snape had entered the ward.

"Harry, Harry, what's this?" said Fudge, looking agitated. "You should
be in bed -- has he had any chocolate?" he asked Madam Pomfrey
anxiously.

"Minister, listen!" Harry said. "Sirius Black's innocent! Peter
Pettigrew faked his own death! We saw him tonight! You can't let the
dementors do that thing to Sirius, he's --"

But Fudge was shaking his head with a small smile on his face.

"Harry, Harry, you're very confused, you've been through a dreadful
ordeal, lie back down, now, we've got everything under control...."

"YOU HAVEN'T!" Harry yelled. "YOUVE GOT THE WRONG MAN!"

"Minister, listen, please," Hermione said; she had hurried to Harry's
side and was gazing imploringly into Fudge's face. "I saw him too. It
was Ron's rat, he's an Animagus, Pettigrew, I mean, and --"

"You see, Minister?" said Snape. "Confunded, both of them.... Black's
done a very good job on them...." "WE'RE NOT CONFUNDED!" Harry roared.

"Minister! Professor!" said Madam Pomfrey angrily. "I must insist that
you leave. Potter is my patient, and he should not be distressed!"

"I'm not distressed, I'm trying to tell them what happened!" Harry said
furiously. "If they'd just listen --"

But Madam Pomfrey suddenly stuffed a large chunk of chocolate into
Harry's mouth; he choked, and she seized the opportunity to force him
back onto the bed.

"Now, please, Minister, these children need care. Please leave

The door opened again. It was Dumbledore. Harry swallowed his mouthful
of chocolate with great difficulty and got up again.

"Professor Dumbledore, Sirius Black --"

"For heaven's sake!" said Madam Pomfrey hysterically. "Is this a
hospital wing or not? Headmaster, I must insist --"

"My apologies, Poppy, but I need a word with Mr. Potter and Miss
Granger," said Dumbledore calmly. "I have just been talking to Sirius
Black --"

"I suppose he's told you the same fairy tale he's planted in Potter's
mind?" spat Snape. "Something about a rat, and Pettigrew being alive --"

"That, indeed, is Black's story," said Dumbledore, surveying Snape
closely through his half-moon spectacles.

"And does my evidence count for nothing?" snarled Snape. "Peter
Pettigrew was not in the Shrieking Shack, nor did I see any sign of him
on the grounds."

"That was because you were knocked out, Professor!" said Hermione
earnestly. "You didn't arrive in time to hear

"Miss Granger, HOLD YOUR TONGUE!"

"Now, Snape," said Fudge, startled, "the young lady is disturbed in her
mind, we must make allowances --"

"I would like to speak to Harry and Hermione alone," said Dumbledore
abruptly. "Cornelius, Severus, Poppy -- please leave us."

"Headmaster!" sputtered Madam Pomfrey. "They need treatment, they need
rest --"

"This cannot wait," said Dumbledore. "I must insist."

Madam Pomfrey pursed her lips and strode away into her office at the end
of the ward, slamming the door behind her. Fudge consulted the large
gold pocket watch dangling from his waistcoat.

"The dementors should have arrived by now," he said. "I'll go and meet
them. Dumbledore, I'll see you upstairs."

He crossed to the door and held it open for Snape, but Snape hadn't
moved.

"You surely don't believe a word of Black's story?" Snape whispered, his
eyes fixed on Dumbledore's face.

"I wish to speak to Harry and Hermione alone," Dumbledore repeated.

Snape took a step toward Dumbledore.

"Sirius Black showed he was capable of murder at the age of sixteen," he
breathed. "You haven't forgotten that, Headmaster? You haven't forgotten
that he once tried to kill me?"

"My memory is as good as it ever was, Severus," said Dumbledore quietly.

Snape turned on his heel and marched through the door Fudge was still
holding. It closed behind them, and Dumbledore turned to Harry and
Hermione. They both burst into speech at the same time.

"Professor, Black's telling the truth -- we saw Pettigrew "-- he escaped
when Professor Lupin turned into a werewolf --"

"-- he's a rat --"

"-- Pettigrew's front paw, I mean, finger, he cut it off --"

"-- Pettigrew attacked Ron, it wasn't Sirius --"

But Dumbledore held up his hand to stem the flood of explanations.

"It is your turn to listen, and I beg you will not interrupt me, because
there is very little time," he said quietly. "There is not a shred of
proof to support Black's story, except your word -- and the word of two
thirteen-year-old wizards will not convince anybody. A street full of
eyewitnesses swore they saw Sirius murder Pettigrew. I myself gave
evidence to the Ministry that Sirius had been the Potters'
Secret-Keeper."

"Professor Lupin can tell you --" Harry said, unable to stop himself

"Professor Lupin is currently deep in the forest, unable to tell anyone
anything. By the time he is human again, it will be too late, Sirius
will be worse than dead. I might add that werewolves are so mistrusted
by most of our kind that his support will count for very little -- and
the fact that he and Sirius are old friends --"

"But --"

"Listen to me, Harry. It is too late, you understand me? You must see
that Professor Snape's version of events is far more convincing than
yours."

"He hates Sirius," Hermione said desperately. "All because of some
stupid trick Sirius played on him --"

"Sirius has not acted like an innocent man. The attack on the Fat Lady
-- entering Gryffindor Tower with a knife -- without Pettigrew, alive or
dead, we have no chance of overturning Sirius's sentence."

"But you believe us."

"Yes, I do," said Dumbledore quietly. "But I have no power to make other
men see the truth, or to overrule the Minister of Magic...."

Harry stared up into the grave face and felt as though the ground
beneath him were falling sharply away. He had grown used to the idea
that Dumbledore could solve anything. He had expected Dumbledore to pull
some amazing solution out of the air. But no ... their last hope was
gone.

"What we need," said Dumbledore slowly, and his light blue eyes moved
from Harry to Hermione, "is more time."

"But --" Hermione began. And then her eyes became very round. "OH!"

"Now, pay attention," said Dumbledore, speaking very low, and very
clearly. "Sirius is locked in Professor Flitwick's office on the seventh
floor. Thirteenth window from the right of the West Tower. If all goes
well, you will be able to save more than one innocent life tonight. But
remember this, both of you: you must not be seen. Miss Granger, you know
the law -- you know what is at stake.... You -- must -- not -- be --
seen."

Harry didn't have a clue what was going on. Dumbledore had turned on his
heel and looked back as he reached the door.

"I am going to lock you in. It is --" he consulted his watch, "five
minutes to midnight. Miss Granger, three turns should do it. Good luck."

"Good luck?" Harry repeated as the door closed behind Dumbledore. "Three
turns? What's he talking about? What are we supposed to do?"

But Hermione was fumbling with the neck of her robes, pulling from
beneath them a very long, very fine gold chain.

"Harry, come here," she said urgently. "Quick!"

Harry moved toward her, completely bewildered. She was holding the chain
out. He saw a tiny, sparkling hourglass hanging from it.

"Here --"

She had thrown the chain around his neck too.

"Ready?" she said breathlessly.

"What are we doing?" Harry said, completely lost.

Hermione turned the hourglass over three times.

The dark ward dissolved. Harry had the sensation that he was flying very
fast, backward. A blur of colors and shapes rushed past him, his ears
were pounding, he tried to yell but couldn't hear his own voice --

And then he felt solid ground beneath his feet, and everything came into
focus again --

He was standing next to Hermione in the deserted entrance hall and a
stream of golden sunlight was falling across the paved floor from the
open front doors. He looked wildly around at Hermione, the chain of the
hourglass cutting into his neck.

"Hermione, what --?"

"In here!" Hermione seized Harry's arm and dragged him across the hall
to the door of a broom closet; she opened it, pushed him inside among
the buckets and mops, then slammed the door behind them.

"What -- how -- Hermione, what happened?"

"We've gone back in time," Hermione whispered, lifting the chain off
Harry's neck in the darkness. "Three hours back..."

Harry found his own leg and gave it a very hard pinch. It hurt a lot,
which seemed to rule out the possibility that he was having a very
bizarre dream.

"But --"

"Shh! Listen! Someone's coming! I think -- I think it might be us!"
Hermione had her ear pressed against the cupboard door.

"Footsteps across the hall... yes, I think it's us going down to
Hagrid's!"

"Are you telling me," Harry whispered, "that we're here in this cupboard
and we're out there too?"

"Yes," said Hermione, her ear still glued to the cupboard door. "I'm
sure it's us. It doesn't sound like more than three people... and we're
walking slowly because we're under the Invisibility Cloak -- "

She broke off, still listening intently.

"We've gone down the front steps...."

Hermione sat down on an upturned bucket, looking desperately anxious,
but Harry wanted a few questions answered.

"Where did you get that hourglass thing?"

"It's called a Time-Turner," Hermione whispered, "and I got it from
Professor McGonagall on our first day back. I've been using it all year
to get to all my lessons. Professor McGonagall made me swear I wouldn't
tell anyone. She had to write all sorts of letters to the Ministry of
Magic so I could have one. She had to tell them that I was a model
student, and that I'd never, ever use it for anything except my
studies.... I've been turning it back so I could do hours over again,
that's how I've been doing several lessons at once, see? But...

"Harry, I don't understand what Dumbledore wants us to do. Why did he
tell us to go back three hours? How's that going to help Sirius?"

Harry stared at her shadowy face.

"There must be something that happened around now he wants us to
change," he said slowly. "What happened? We were walking down to
Hagrid's three hours ago...."

"This is three hours ago, and we are walking down to Hagrid's," said
Hermione. "We just heard ourselves leaving...."

Harry frowned; he felt as though he were screwing up his whole brain in
concentration.

"Dumbledore just said -- just said we could save more than one innocent
life...." And then it hit him. "Hermione, we're going to save Buckbeak!"

"But -- how will that help Sirius?"

"Dumbledore said -- he just told us where the window is -- the window of
Flitwick's office! Where they've got Sirius locked up! We've got to fly
Buckbeak up to the window and rescue Sirius! Sirius can escape on
Buckbeak -- they can escape together!"

From what Harry could see of Hermione's face, she looked terrified.

"If we manage that without being seen, it'll be a miracle!"

"Well, we've got to try, haven't we?" said Harry. He stood up and
pressed his ear against the door. "Doesn't sound like anyone's there....
Come on, let's go."

Harry pushed open the closet door. The entrance hall was deserted. As
quietly and quickly as they could, they darted out of the closet and
down the stone steps. The shadows were already lengthening, the tops of
the trees in the Forbidden Forest gilded once more with gold.

"If anyone's looking out of the window --" Hermione squeaked, looking up
at the castle behind them.

"We'll run for it," said Harry determinedly. "Straight into the forest,
all right? We'll have to hide behind a tree or something and keep a
lookout --"

"Okay, but we'll go around by the greenhouses!" said Hermione
breathlessly. "We need to keep out of sight of Hagrid's front door, or
we'll see us! We must be nearly at Hagrid's by now!"

Still working out what she meant, Harry set off at a sprint, Hermione
behind him. They tore across the vegetable gardens to the greenhouses,
paused for a moment behind them, then set off again, fast as they could,
skirting around the Whomping Willow, tearing toward the shelter of the
forest....

Safe in the shadows of the trees, Harry turned around; seconds later,
Hermione arrived beside him, panting.

"Right," she gasped. "We need to sneak over to Hagrid's.... Keep out of
sight, Harry...."

They made their way silently through the trees, keeping to the very edge
of the forest. Then, as they glimpsed the front of Hagrid's house, they
heard a knock upon his door. They moved quickly behind a wide oak trunk
and peered out from either side. Hagrid had appeared in his doorway,
shaking and white, looking around to see who had knocked. And Harry
heard his own voice.

"It's us. We're wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Let us in and we can
take it off."

"Yeh shouldn've come!" Hagrid whispered. He stood back, then shut the
door quickly.

"This is the weirdest thing we've ever done," Harry said fervently.

"Let's move along a bit," Hermione whispered. "We need to get nearer to
Buckbeak!"

They crept through the trees until they saw the nervous hippogriff,
tethered to the fence around Hagrid's pumpkin patch.

"Now?" Harry whispered.

"No!" said Hermione. "If we steal him now, those Committee people will
think Hagrid set him free! We've got to wait until they've seen he's
tied outside!"

"That's going to give us about sixty seconds," said Harry. This was
starting to seem impossible.

At that moment, there was a crash of breaking china from inside Hagrid's
cabin.

"That's Hagrid breaking the milk jug," Hermione whispered. "I'm going to
find Scabbers in a moment --"

Sure enough, a few minutes later, they heard Hermione's shriek of
surprise.

"Hermione," said Harry suddenly, "what if we -- we just run in there and
grab Pettigrew --"

"No!" said Hermione in a terrified whisper. "Don't you understand? We're
breaking one of the most important wizarding laws! Nobody's supposed to
change time, nobody! You heard Dumbledore, if we're seen --"

"We'd only be seen by ourselves and Hagrid!"

"Harry, what do you think you'd do if you saw yourself bursting into
Hagrid's house?" said Hermione.

"I'd -- I'd think I'd gone mad," said Harry, "or I'd think there was
some Dark Magic going on --"

"Exactly! You wouldn't understand, you might even attack yourself! Don't
you see? Professor McGonagall told me what awful things have happened
when wizards have meddled with time.... Loads of them ended up killing
their past or future selves by mistake!"

"Okay!" said Harry. "It was just an idea, I just thought

But Hermione nudged him and pointed toward the castle. Harry moved his
head a few inches to get a clear view of the distant front doors.
Dumbledore, Fudge, the old Committee member, and Macnair the executioner
were coming down the steps.

"We're about to come out!" Hermione breathed.

And sure enough, moments later, Hagrid's back door opened, and Harry saw
himself, Ron, and Hermione walking out of it with Hagrid. It was,
without a doubt, the strangest sensation of his life, standing behind
the tree, and watching himself in the pumpkin patch.

"It's Okay, Beaky, it's okay..." Hagrid said to Buckbeak. Then he turned
to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. "Go on. Get goin'."

"Hagrid, we can't --"

"We'll tell them what really happened

"They can't kill him --"

"Go! It's bad enough without you lot in trouble an' all!"

Harry watched the Hermione in the pumpkin patch throw the Invisibility
Cloak over him and Ron.

"Go quick. Don' listen...."

There was a knock on Hagrid's front door. The execution party had
arrived. Hagrid turned, around and headed back into his cabin, leaving
the back door ajar. Harry watched the grass flatten in patches all
around the cabin and heard three pairs of feet retreating. He, Ron, and
Hermione had gone... but the Harry and Hermione hidden in the trees
could now hear what was happening inside the cabin through the back
door.

"Where is the beast?" came the cold voice of Macnair.

"Out -- outside," Hagrid croaked.

Harry pulled his head out of sight as Macnair's face appeared at
Hagrid's window, staring out at Buckbeak. Then they heard Fudge.

"We -- er -- have to read you the official notice of execution, Hagrid.
I'll make it quick. And then you and Macnair need to sign it. Macnair,
You're supposed to listen too, that's procedure --"

Macnair's face vanished from the window. It was now or never.

"Wait here," Harry whispered to Hermione. "I'll do it."

As Fudge's voice started again, Harry darted out from behind his tree,
vaulted the fence into the pumpkin patch, and approached Buckbeak.

"It is the decision of the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous
Creatures that the hippogriff Buckbeak, hereafter called the condemned,
shall he executed on the sixth of June at sundown --"

Careful not to blink, Harry stared up into Buckbeak's fierce orange eyes
once more and bowed. Buckbeak sank to his scaly knees and then stood up
again. Harry began to fumble with the knot of rope tying Buckbeak to the
fence.

"... sentenced to execution by beheading, to be carried out by the
Committee's appointed executioner, Walden Macnai..."

"Come on, Buckbeak," Harry murmured, "come on, we're going to help you.
Quietly... quietly..."

"... as witnessed below. Hagrid, you sign here..."

Harry threw all his weight onto the rope, but Buckbeak had dug in his
front feet.

"Well, let's get this over with," said the reedy voice of the Committee
member from inside Hagrid's cabin. "Hagrid, perhaps it will be better if
you stay inside --"

"No, I -- I wan' ter be with him.... I don' wan' him ter be alone --"

Footsteps echoed from within the cabin.

"Buckbeak, move!" Harry hissed.

Harry tugged harder on the rope around Buckbeak's neck. The hippogriff
began to walk, rustling its wings irritably. They were still ten feet
away from the forest, in plain view of Hagrid's back door. "One moment,
please, Macnair," came Dumbledore's voice. "You need to sign too." The
footsteps stopped. Harry heaved on the rope. Buckbeak snapped his beak
and walked a little faster.

Hermione's white face was sticking out from behind a tree.

"Harry, hurry!" she mouthed.

Harry could still hear Dumbledore's voice talking from within the cabin.
He gave the rope another wrench. Buckbeak broke into a grudging trot.
They had reached the trees....

"Quick! Quick!" Hermione moaned, darting out from behind her tree,
seizing the rope too and adding her weight to make Buckbeak move faster.
Harry looked over his shoulder; they were now blocked from sight; they
couldn't see Hagrid's garden at all.

"Stop!" he whispered to Hermione. "They might hear us

Hagrid's back door had opened with a bang. Harry, Hermione, and Buckbeak
stood quite still; even the hippogriff seemed to be listening intently.

Silence... then --

"Where is it?" said the reedy voice of the Committee member. "Where is
the beast?"

"It was tied here!" said the executioner furiously. I saw it! just
here!"

"How extraordinary," said Dumbledore. There was a note of amusement in
his voice.

"Beaky!" said Hagrid huskily.

There was a swishing noise, and the thud of an axe. The executioner
seemed to have swung it into the fence in anger. And then came the
howling, and this time they could hear Hagrid's words through his sobs.

"Gone! Gone! Bless his little beak, he's gone! Musta pulled himself
free! Beaky, yeh clever boy!"

Buckbeak started to strain against the rope, trying to get back to
Hagrid. Harry and Hermione tightened their grip and dug their heels into
the forest floor to stop him.

"Someone untied him!" the executioner was snarling. "We should search
the grounds, the forest."

"Macnair, if Buckbeak has indeed been stolen, do you really think the
thief will have led him away on foot?" said Dumbledore, still sounding
amused. "Search the skies, if you will.... Hagrid, I could do with a cup
of tea. Or a large brandy."

"O' -- o' course, Professor," said Hagrid, who sounded weak with
happiness. "Come in, come in...."

Harry and Hermione listened closely. They heard footsteps, the soft
cursing of the executioner, the snap of the door, and then silence once
more.

"Now what?" whispered Harry, looking around.

"We'll have to hide in here," said Hermione, who looked very shaken. "We
need to wait until they've gone back to the castle. Then we wait until
it's safe to fly Buckbeak up to Sirius's window. He won't be there for
another couple of hours.... Oh, this is going to be difficult...."

She looked nervously over her shoulder into the depths of the forest.
The sun was setting now.

"We're going to have to move," said Harry, thinking hard. "We've got to
be able to see the Whomping Willow, or we won't know what's going on."

"Okay," said Hermione, getting a firmer grip on Buckbeak's rope. "But
we've got to keep out of sight, Harry, remember...."

They moved around the edge of the forest, darkness falling thickly
around them, until they were hidden behind a clump of trees through
which they could make out the Willow.

"There's Ron!" said Harry suddenly.

A dark figure was sprinting across the lawn and its shout echoed through
the still night air.

"Get away from him -- get away -- Scabbers, come here --"

And then they saw two more figures materialize out of nowhere. Harry
watched himself and Hermione chasing after Ron. Then he saw Ron dive.

"Gotcha! Get off, you stinking cat --"

"There's Sirius!" said Harry. The great shape of the dog had bounded out
from the roots of the Willow. They saw him bowl Harry over, then seize
Ron....

"Looks even worse from here, doesn't it?" said Harry, watching the dog
pulling Ron into the roots. "Ouch -- look, I just got walloped by the
tree -- and so did you -- this is weird--"

The Whomping Willow was creaking and lashing out with its lower
branches; they could see themselves darting here and there, trying to
reach the trunk. And then the tree froze.

"That was Crookshanks pressing the knot," said Hermione.

"And there we go..." Harry muttered. "We're in."

The moment they disappeared, the tree began to move again. Seconds
later, they heard footsteps quite close by. Dumbledore, Macnair, Fudge,
and the old Committee member were making their way up to the castle.

"Right after we'd gone down into the passage!" said Hermione. "If only
Dumbledore had come with us..."

"Macnair and Fudge would've come too," said Harry bitterly. "I bet you
anything Fudge would've told Macnair to murder Sirius on the spot...."

They watched the four men climb the castle steps and disappear from
view. For a few minutes the scene was deserted. Then --

"Here comes Lupin!" said Harry as they saw another figure sprinting down
the stone steps and hating toward the Willow. Harry looked up at the
sky. Clouds were obscuring the moon completely.

They watched Lupin seize a broken branch from the ground and prod the
knot on the trunk. The tree stopped fighting, and Lupin, too,
disappeared into the gap in its roots.

"If he'd only grabbed the cloak," said Harry. "It's just lying
there...."

He turned to Hermione.

"If I just dashed out now and grabbed it, Snape'd never be able to get
it and --"

"Harry, we mustn't be seen!"

"How can you stand this?" he asked Hermione fiercely. "Just standing
here and watching it happen?" He hesitated. "I'm going to grab the
cloak!"

"Harry, no!"

Hermione seized the back of Harry's robes not a moment too soon. just
then, they heard a burst of song. It was Hagrid, making his way up to
the castle, singing at the top of his voice, and weaving slightly as he
walked. A large bottle was swinging from his hands.

"See?" Hermione whispered. "See what would have happened? We've got to
keep out of sight! No, Buckbeak!"

The hippogriff was making frantic attempts to get to Hagrid again; Harry
seized his rope too, straining to hold Buckbeak back. They watched
Hagrid meander tipsily up to the castle. He was gone. Buckbeak stopped
fighting to get away. His head drooped sadly.

Barely two minutes later, the castle doors flew open yet again, and
Snape came charging out of them, running toward the Willow.

Harry's fists clenched as they watched Snape skid to a halt next to the
tree, looking around. He grabbed the cloak and held it up.

"Get your filthy hands off it," Harry snarled under his breath. "Shh!"

Snape seized the branch Lupin had used to freeze the tree, prodded the
knot, and vanished from view as he put on the cloak.

"So that's it," said Hermione quietly. "We're all down there... and now
we've just got to wait until we come back up again...."

She took the end of Buckbeak's rope and tied it securely around the
nearest tree, then sat down on the dry ground, arms around her knees.

"Harry, there's something I don't understand.... Why didn't the
dementors get Sirius? I remember them coming, and then I think I passed
out... there were so many of them...."

Harry sat down too. He explained what he'd seen; how, as the nearest
dementor had lowered its mouth to Harry's, a large silver something had
come galloping across the lake and forced the dementors to retreat.

Hermione's mouth was slightly open by the time Harry had finished.

"But what was it?"

"There's only one thing it could have been, to make the dementors go,"
said Harry. "A real Patronus. A powerful one."

"But who conjured it?"

Harry didn't say anything. He was thinking back to the person he'd seen
on the other bank of the lake. He knew who he thought it had been... but
how could it have been?

"Didn't you see what they looked like?" said Hermione eagerly. "Was it
one of the teachers?"

"No," said Harry. "He wasn't a teacher."

"But it must have been a really powerful wizard, to drive all those
dementors away... If the Patronus was shining so brightly, didn't it
light him up? Couldn't you see --?"

"Yeah, I saw him," said Harry slowly. "But... maybe I imagined it.... I
wasn't thinking straight.... I passed out right afterward...."

"Who did you think it was?"

I think --" Harry swallowed, knowing how strange this was going to
sound. I think it was my dad."

Harry glanced up at Hermione and saw that her mouth was fully open now.
She was gazing at him with a mixture of alarm and pity.

"Harry, your dad's -- well -- dead," she said quietly.

"I know that," said Harry quickly.

"You think you saw his ghost?"

"I don't know... no... he looked solid...."

"But then --"

"Maybe I was seeing things," said Harry. "But... from what I could
see... it looked like him.... I've got photos of him...."

Hermione was still looking at him as though worried about his sanity.

I know it sounds crazy," said Harry flatly. He turned to took at
Buckbeak, who was digging his beak into the ground, apparently searching
for worms. But he wasn't really watching Buckbeak.

He was thinking about his father and about his father's three oldest
friends... Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs.... Had all four of them
been out on the grounds tonight? Wormtail had reappeared this evening
when everyone had thought he was dead.... Was it so impossible his
father had done the same? Had he been seeing things across the take? The
figure had been too far away to see distinctly... yet he had felt sure,
for a moment, before he'd lost consciousness....

The leaves overhead rustled faintly in the breeze. The moon drifted in
and out of sight behind the shifting clouds. Hermione sat with her face
turned toward the Willow, waiting.

And then, at last, after over an hour...

"Here we come!" Hermione whispered.

She and Harry got to their feet. Buckbeak raised his head. They saw
Lupin, Ron, and Pettigrew clambering awkwardly out of the hole in the
roots. Then came Hermione... then the unconscious Snape, drifting
weirdly upward. Next came Harry and Black. They all began to walk toward
the castle.

Harry's heart was starting to beat very fast. He glanced up at the sky.
Any moment now, that cloud was going to move aside and show the moon....

"Harry," Hermione muttered as though she knew exactly what he was
thinking, "we've got to stay put. We mustn't be seen. There's nothing we
can do...."

"So we're just going to let Pettigrew escape all over again.. said Harry
quietly.

"How do you expect to find a rat in the dark?" snapped Hermione.
"There's nothing we can do! We came back to help Sirius; we're not
supposed to be doing anything else!"

"All right!"

The moon slid out from behind its cloud. They saw the tiny figures
across the grounds stop. Then they saw movement --

"There goes Lupin," Hermione whispered. "He's transforming

"Hermione!" said Harry suddenly. "We've got to move!"

"We mustn't, I keep telling you --"

"Not to interfere! Lupin's going to run into the forest, right at us!"

Hermione gasped.

"Quick!" she moaned, dashing to untie Buckbeak. "Quick! Where are we
going to go? Where are we going to hide? The dementors wilt be coming
any moment --"

"Back to Hagrid's!" Harry said. "It's empty now -- come on!"

They ran as fast as they could, Buckbeak cantering along behind them.
They could hear the werewolf howling behind them....

The cabin was in sight; Harry skidded to the door, wrenched it open, and
Hermione and Buckbeak flashed past him; Harry threw himself in after
them and bolted the door. Fang the boarhound barked loudly.

"Shh, Fang, it's us!" said Hermione, hurrying over and scratching his
ears to quieten him. "That was really close!" she said to Harry.

"Yeah..."

Harry was looking out of the window. It was much harder to see what was
going on from here. Buckbeak seemed very happy to find himself back
inside Hagrid's house. He lay down in front of the fire, folded his
wings contentedly, and seemed ready for a good nap.

"I think I'd better go outside again, you know," said Harry slowly. "I
can't see what's going on -- we won't know when it's time --"

Hermione looked up. Her expression was suspicious.

"I'm not going to try and interfere," said Harry quickly. "But if we
don't see what's going on, how're we going to know when it's time to
rescue Sirius?"

"Well... okay, then... I'll wait here with Buckbeak... but Harry, be
careful -- there's a werewolf out there -- and the dementors

Harry stepped outside again and edged around the cabin. He could hear
yelping in the distance. That meant the dementors were closing in on
Sirius.... He and Hermione would be running to him any moment....

Harry stared out toward the lake, his heart doing a kind of drumroll in
his chest.... Whoever had sent that Patronus would be appearing at any
moment....

For a fraction of a second he stood, irresolute, in front of Hagrid's
door. You must not be seen. But he didn't want to be seen. He wanted to
do the seeing.... He had to know...

And there were the dementors. They were emerging out of the darkness
from every direction, gliding around the edges of the lake.... They were
moving away from where Harry stood, to the opposite bank.... He wouldn't
have to get near them....

Harry began to run. He had no thought in his head except his father...
If it was him... if it really was him... he had to know, had to find
out....

The lake was coming nearer and nearer, but there was no sign of anybody.
On the opposite bank, he could see tiny glimmers of silver -- his own
attempts at a Patronus --

There was a bush at the very edge of the water. Harry threw himself
behind it, peering desperately through the leaves. On the opposite bank,
the glimmers of silver were suddenly extinguished. A terrified
excitement shot through him -- any moment now --

"Come on!" he muttered, staring about. "Where are you? Dad, come on --"

But no one came. Harry raised his head to look at the circle of
dementors across the lake. One of them was lowering its hood. It was
time for the rescuer to appear -- but no one was coming to help this
time --

And then it hit him -- he understood. He hadn't seen his father -- he
had seen himself --

Harry flung himself out from behind the bush and pulled out his wand.

"EXPECTO PATRONUM! "he yelled.

And out of the end of his wand burst, not a shapeless cloud of mist, but
a blinding, dazzling, silver animal. He screwed up his eyes, trying to
see what it was. It looked like a horse. It was galloping silently away
from him, across the black surface of the lake. He saw it lower its head
and charge at the swarming dementors.... Now it was galloping around and
around the black shapes on the ground, and the dementors were falling
back, scattering, retreating into the darkness.... They were gone.

The Patronus turned. It was cantering back toward Harry across the still
surface of the water. It wasn't a horse. It wasn't a unicorn, either. It
was a stag. It was shining brightly as the moon above ... it was coming
back to him....

It stopped on the bank. Its hooves made no mark on the soft ground as it
stared at Harry with its large, silver eyes. Slowly, it bowed its
antlered head. And Harry realized... "Prongs, "he whispered.

But as his trembling fingertips stretched toward the creature, it
vanished.

Harry stood there, hand still outstretched. Then, with a great leap of
his heart, he heard hooves behind him -he whirled around and saw
Hermione dashing toward him, dragging Buckbeak behind her.

"What did you do?" she said fiercely. "You said you were only going to
keep a lookout!"

"I just saved all our lives...," said Harry. "Get behind here -- behind
this bush -- I'll explain."

Hermione listened to what had just happened with her mouth open yet
again.

"Did anyone see you?"

"Yes, haven't you been listening? I saw me but I thought I was my dad!
It's okay!"

"Harry, I can't believe it.... You conjured up a Patronus that drove
away all those dementors! That's very, very advanced magic. I knew I
could do it this time," said Harry, "because I'd already done it....
Does that make sense?"

"I don't know -- Harry, look at Snape!"

Together they peered around the bush at the other bank. Snape had
regained consciousness. He was conjuring stretchers and lifting the limp
forms of Harry, Hermione, and Black onto them. A fourth stretcher, no
doubt bearing Ron, was already floating at his side. Then, wand held out
in front of him, he moved them away toward the castle.

"Right, it's nearly time," said Hermione tensely, looking at her watch.
"We've got about forty-five minutes until Dumbledore locks the door to
the hospital wing. We've got to rescue Sirius and get back into the ward
before anybody realizes we're missing.... 11

They waited, watching the moving clouds reflected in the lake, while the
bush next to them whispered in the breeze. Buckbeak, bored, was
ferreting for worms again.

"D' you reckon he's up there yet?" said Harry, checking his watch. He
looked up at the castle and began counting the windows to the right of
the West Tower.

"Look!" Hermione whispered. "\Who's that? Someone's coming back out of
the castle!"

Harry stared through the darkness. The man was hurrying across the
grounds, toward one of the entrances. Something shiny glinted in his
belt.

"Macnair!" said Harry. "The executioner! He's gone to get the dementors!
This is it, Hermione --"

Hermione put her hands on Buckbeak's back and Harry gave her a leg up.
Then he placed his foot on one of the lower branches of the bush and
climbed up in front of her. He pulled Buckbeak's rope back over his neck
and tied it to the other side of his collar like reins.

"Ready?" he whispered to Hermione. "YotM better hold on to me --

He nudged Buckbeak's sides with his heels.

Buckbeak soared straight into the dark air. Harry gripped his flanks
with his knees, feeling the great wings rising powerfully beneath them.
Hermione was holding Harry very tight around the waist; he could hear
her muttering, "Oh, no -- I don't like this oh, I really don't like this
--"

Harry urged Buckbeak forward. They were gliding quietly toward the upper
floors of the castle.... Harry pulled hard on the left-hand side of the
rope, and Buckbeak turned. Harry was trying to count the windows
flashing past --

"Whoa!" he said, pulling backward as hard as he could.

Buckbeak slowed down and they found themselves at a stop, unless you
counted the fact that they kept rising up and down several feet as the
hippogriff beat his wings to remain airborne.

"He's there!" Harry said, spotting Sirius as they rose up beside the
window. He reached out, and as Buckbeak's wings fell, was able to tap
sharply on the glass.

Black looked up. Harry saw his jaw drop. He leapt from his chair,
hurried to the window and tried to open it, but it was locked.

"Stand back!" Hermione called to him, and she took out her wand, still
gripping the back of Harry's robes with her left hand.

"Alohomora!"

The window sprang open.

"How -- how --?" said Black weakly, staring at the hippogriff

"Get on -- there's not much time," said Harry, gripping Buckbeak firmly
on either side of his sleek neck to hold him steady. "You've got to get
out of here -the dementors are coming -- Macnair's gone to get them."

Black placed a hand on either side of the window frame and heaved his
head and shoulders out of it. It was very lucky he was so thin. In
seconds, he had managed to fling one leg over Buckbeak's back and pull
himself onto the hippogriff behind Hermione.

"Okay, Buckbeak, up!" said Harry, shaking the rope. "Up to the tower --
come on.

The hippogriff gave one sweep of its mighty wings and they were soaring
upward again, high as the top of the West Tower. Buckbeak landed with a
clatter on the battlements, and Harry and Hermione slid off him at once.

"Sirius, you'd better go, quick," Harry panted. "They'll reach
Flitwick's office any moment, they'll find out you're gone."

Buckbeak pawed the ground, tossing his sharp head.

"What happened to the other boy? Ron?" croaked Sirius.

"He's going to be okay. He's still out of it, but Madam Pomfrey says
she'll be able to make him better. Quick -- go --"

But Black was still staring down at Harry.

"How can I ever thank --"

"GO!" Harry and Hermione shouted together.

Black wheeled Buckbeak around, facing the open sky.

"We'll see each other again," he said. "You are -- truly your father's
son, Harry...."

He squeezed Buckbeak's sides with his heels. Harry and Hermione jumped
back as the enormous wings rose once more.... The hippogriff took off
into the air.... He and his rider became smaller and smaller as Harry
gazed after them... then a cloud drifted across the moon.... They were
gone.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

OWL POST AGAIN

Harry!"

Hermione was tugging at his sleeve, staring at her watch. "We've got
exactly ten minutes to get back down to the hospital wing without
anybody seeing us -- before Dumbledore locks the door --"

"Okay," said Harry, wrenching his gaze from the sky, "let's go...."

They slipped through the doorway behind them and down a tightly
spiraling stone staircase. As they reached the bottom of it, they heard
voices. They flattened themselves against the wall and listened. It
sounded like Fudge and Snape. They were walking quickly along the
corridor at the foot of the staircase.

"... only hope Dumbledore's not going to make difficulties," Snape was
saying. "The Kiss will be performed immediately?"

"As soon as Macnair returns with the dementors. This whole Black affair
has been highly embarrassing. I can't tell you how much I'm looking
forward to informing the Daily Prophet that we've got him at last.... I
daresay they'll want to interview you, Snape... and once young Harry's
back in his right mind, I expect he'll want to tell the Prophet exactly
how you saved him...."

Harry clenched his teeth. He caught a glimpse of Snape's smirk as he and
Fudge passed Harry and Hermione's hiding place. Their footsteps died
away. Harry and Hermione waited a few moments to make sure they'd really
gone, then started to run in the opposite direction. Down one staircase,
then another, along a new ,corridor -- then they heard a cackling ahead.

"Peeves!" Harry muttered, grabbing Hermione's wrist. "In here!"

They tore into a deserted classroom to their left just in time. Peeves
seemed to be bouncing along the corridor in boisterous good spirits,
laughing his head off.

"Oh, he's horrible," whispered Hermione, her ear to the door. "I bet
he's all excited because the dementors are going to finish off
Sirius...." She checked her watch. "Three minutes, Harry!"

They waited until Peeves's gloating voice had faded into the distance,
then slid back out of the room and broke into a run again.

"Hermione -- what'll happen -- if we don't get back inside before
Dumbledore locks the door?" Harry panted.

I don't want to think about it!" Hermione moaned, checking her watch
again. "One minute!"

They had reached the end of the corridor with the hospital wing
entrance. "Okay -- I can hear Dumbledore," said Hermione tensely. "Come
on, Harry!"

They crept along the corridor. The door opened. Dumbledore's back
appeared.

"I am going to lock you in," they heard him saying. "it is five minutes
to midnight. Miss Granger, three turns should do It. Good luck."

Dumbledore backed out of the room, closed the door, and took out his
wand to magically lock it. Panicking, Harry and Hermione ran forward.
Dumbledore looked up, and a wide smile appeared under the long silver
mustache. "Well?" he said quietly.

"We did it!" said Harry breathlessly. "Sirius has gone, on Buckbeak...."

Dumbledore beamed at them.

"Well done. I think --" He listened intently for any sound within the
hospital wing. "Yes, I think you've gone too -- get inside -- I'll lock
you in --"

Harry and Hermione slipped back inside the dormitory. It was empty
except for Ron, who was still lying motionless in the end bed. As the
lock clicked behind them, Harry and Hermione crept back to their own
beds, Hermione tucking the Time-Turner back under her robes. A moment
later, Madam Pomfrey came striding back out of her office.

"Did I hear the headmaster leaving? Am I allowed to look after my
patients now?"

She was in a very bad mood. Harry and Hermione thought it best to accept
their chocolate quietly. Madam Pomfrey stood over them, making sure they
ate it. But Harry could hardly swallow. He and Hermione were waiting,
listening, their nerves jangling.... And then, as they both took a
fourth piece of chocolate from Madam Pomfrey, they heard a distant roar
of fury echoing from somewhere above them....

"What was that?" said Madam Pomfrey in alarm.

Now they could hear angry voices, growing louder and louder. Madam
Pomfrey was staring at the door.

"Really -- they'll wake everybody up! What do they think they're doing?"

Harry was trying to hear what the voices were saying. They were drawing
nearer --

"He must have Disapparated, Severus. We should have left somebody in the
room with him. When this gets out --"

"HE DIDN'T DISAPPARATE!" Snape roared, now very close at hand. "YOU
CAN'T APPARATE OR DISAPPARATE INSIDE THIS CASTLE! THIS -- HAS --
SOMETHING -- TO -- DO -- WITH -- POTTER!"

"Severus -- be reasonable -- Harry has been locked up --"

BAM.

The door of the hospital wing burst open.

Fudge, Snape, and Dumbledore came striding into the ward. Dumbledore
alone looked calm. Indeed, he looked as though he was quite enjoying
himself. Fudge appeared angry. But Snape was beside himself.

"OUT WITH IT, POTTER!" he bellowed. "WHAT DID YOU DO?"

"Professor Snape!" shrieked Madam Pomfrey. "Control yourself!"

"See here, Snape, be reasonable," said Fudge. "This door's been locked,
we just saw --"

"THEY HELPED HIM ESCAPE, I KNOW IT!" Snape howled, pointing at Harry and
Hermione. His face was twisted; spit was flying from his mouth.

"Calm down, man!" Fudge barked. "You're talking nonsense!"

"YOU DON'T KNOW POTTER!" shrieked Snape. "HE DID IT, I KNOW HE DID IT
--"

"That will do, Severus," said Dumbledore quietly. "Think about what you
are saying. This door has been locked since I left the ward ten minutes
ago. Madam Pomfrey, have these students left their beds?"

"Of course not!" said Madam Pomfrey, bristling. "I would have heard
them!"

"Well, there you have it, Severus," said Dumbledore calmly. "Unless you
are suggesting that Harry and Hermione are able to be in two places at
once, I'm afraid I don't see any point in troubling them further."

Snape stood there, seething, staring from Fudge, who looked thoroughly
shocked at his behavior, to Dumbledore, whose eyes were twinkling behind
his glasses. Snape whirled about, robes swishing behind him, and stormed
out of the ward.

"Fellow seems quite unbalanced," said Fudge, staring after him. "I'd
watch out for him if I were you, Dumbledore."

"Oh, he's not unbalanced," said Dumbledore quietly. "He's just suffered
a severe disappointment."

"He's not the only one!" puffed Fudge. "The Daily Prophet's going to
have a field day! We had Black cornered and he slipped through our
fingers yet again! All it needs now is for the story of that
hippogriff's escape to get out, and I'll be a laughingstock! Well... I'd
better go and notify the Ministry.....

"And the dementors?" said Dumbledore. "They'll be removed from the
school, I trust?"

"Oh yes, they'll have to go," said Fudge, running his fingers

distractedly through his hair. "Never dreamed they'd attempt to
administer the Kiss on an innocent boy... Completely out of control...
no, I'll have them packed off back to Azkaban tonight.... Perhaps we
should think about dragons at the school entrance...."

"Hagrid would like that," said Dumbledore, smiling at Harry and
Hermione. As he and Fudge left the dormitory, Madam Pomfrey hurried to
the door and locked it again. Muttering angrily to herself, she headed
back to her office.

There was a low moan from the other end of the ward. Ron had woken up.
They could see him sitting up, rubbing his head, looking around.

"What -- what happened?" he groaned. "Harry? Why are we in here? Where's
Sirius? Where's Lupin? What's going on?"

Harry and Hermione looked at each other.

"You explain," said Harry, helping himself to some more chocolate.

When Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the hospital wing at noon the next
day, it was to find an almost deserted castle. The sweltering, heat and
the end of the exams meant that everyone was taking full advantage of
another Hogsmeade visit. Neither Ron nor Hermione felt like going,
however, so they and Harry wandered onto the grounds, still talking
about the extraordinary events of the previous night and wondering where
Sirius and Buckbeak were now. Sitting near the lake, watching the giant
squid waving its tentacles lazily above the water, Harry lost the thread
of the conversation as he looked across to the opposite bank. The stag
had galloped toward him from there just last night....

A shadow fell across them and they looked 'tip to see a very bleary-eyed
Hagrid, mopping his sweaty face with one of his tablecloth-sized
handkerchiefs and beaming down at them.

"Know I shouldn' feel happy, after wha' happened las' night," he said.
"I mean, Black escapin' again, an, everythin' -- but guess what?"

"What?" they said, pretending to look curious.

"Beaky! He escaped! He's free! Bin celebratin' all night!"

"That's wonderful!" said Hermione, giving Ron a reproving look because
he looked as though he was close to laughing.

"Yeah... can't've tied him up properly," said Hagrid, gazing happily out
over the grounds. "I was worried this mornin', mind... thought he mighta
met Professor Lupin on the grounds, but Lupin says he never ate anythin'
las' night...."

"What?" said Harry quickly.

"Blimey, haven' yeh heard?" said Hagrid, his smile fading a little. He
lowered his voice, even though there was nobody in sight. "Er -- Snape
told all the Slytherins this mornin'.... Thought everyone'd know by
now... Professor Lupin's a werewolf, see. An' he was loose on the
grounds las' night.... He's packin' now, o' course.

"He's packing?" said Harry, alarmed. "Why?"

"Leavin', isn' he?" said Hagrid, looking surprised that Harry had to
ask. "Resigned firs' thing this mornin'. Says he can't risk it happenin
again.

Harry scrambled to his feet.

"I'm going to see him," he said to Ron and Hermione.

"But if he's resigned --"

"-- doesn't sound like there's anything we can do --"

"I don't care. I still want to see him. I'll meet you back here."

Lupin's office door was open. He had already packed most of his things.
The grindylow's empty tank stood next to his battered old suitcase,
which was open and nearly full. Lupin was bending over something on his
desk and looked up only when Harry knocked on the door.

"I saw you coming," said Lupin, smiling. He pointed to the parchment he
had been poring over. It was the Marauder's Map.

"I just saw Hagrid," said Harry. "And he said you'd resigned. It's not
true, is it?"

"I'm afraid it is," said Lupin. He started opening his desk drawers and
taking out the contents.

"Why?" said Harry. "The Ministry of Magic don't think you were helping
Sirius, do they?"

Lupin crossed to the door and closed it behind Harry.

"No. Professor Dumbledore managed to convince Fudge that I was trying to
save your lives." He sighed. "That was the final straw for Severus. I
think the loss of the Order of Merlin hit him hard. So he -- er --
accidentally let slip that I am a werewolf this morning at breakfast."

"You're not leaving just because of that!" said Harry.

Lupin smiled wryly.

"This time tomorrow, the owls will start arriving from parents.... They
will not want a werewolf teaching their children, Harry. And after last
night, I see their point. I could have bitten any of you.... That must
never happen again."

"You're the best Defense Against the Dark Arts- teacher we've ever had!"
said Harry. "Don't go!"

Lupin shook his head and didn't speak. He carried on emptying his
drawers. Then, while Harry was trying to think of a good argument to
make him stay, Lupin said, "From what the headmaster told me this
morning, you saved a lot of lives last night, Harry. if I'm proud of
anything I've done this year, it's how much you've learned.... Tell me
about your Patronus."

"How d'you know about that?" said Harry, distracted.

"What else could have driven the dementors back?"

Harry told Lupin what had happened. When he'd finished, Lupin was
smiling again.

"Yes, your father was always a stag when he transformed," he said. "You
guessed right... that's why we called him Prongs."

Lupin threw his last few books into his case, closed the desk drawers,
and turned to look at Harry.

"Here -- I brought this from the Shrieking Shack last night," he said,
handing Harry back the Invisibility Cloak. "And..." He hesitated, then
held out the Marauder's Map too. "I am no longer your teacher, so I
don't feel guilty about giving you back this as well. It's no use to me,
and I daresay you, Ron, and Hermione will find uses for it."

Harry took the map and grinned.

"You told me Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs would've wanted to
lure me out of school... you said they'd have thought it was funny."

"And so we would have," said Lupin, now reaching down to close his case.
"I have no hesitation in saying that James would have been highly
disappointed if his son had never found any of the secret passages out
of the castle."

There was a knock on the door. Harry hastily stuffed the Marauder's Map
and the Invisibility Cloak into his pocket.

It was Professor Dumbledore. He didn't look surprised to see Harry
there.

"Your carriage is at the gates, Remus," he said.

"Thank You, Headmaster."

Lupin picked up his old suitcase and the empty grindylow tank.

"Well -- good-bye, Harry," he said, smiling. "It has been a real
pleasure teaching you. I feel sure we'll meet again sometime.
Headmaster, there is no need to see me to the gates, I can manage...."

Harry had the impression that Lupin wanted to leave as quickly as
possible.

"Good-bye, then, Remus," said Dumbledore soberly. Lupin shifted the
grindylow tank slightly so that he and Dumbledore could shake hands.
Then, with a final nod to Harry and a swift smile, Lupin left the
office.

Harry sat down in his vacated chair, staring glumly at the floor. He
heard the door close and looked up. Dumbledore was still there.

"Why so miserable, Harry?" he said quietly. "You should be very proud of
yourself after last night."

"It didn't make any difference," said Harry bitterly. "Pettigrew got
away."

"Didn't make any difference?" said Dumbledore quietly, "It made all the
difference in the world, Harry. You helped uncover the truth. You saved
an innocent man from a terrible fate."

Terrible. Something stirred in Harry's memory. Greater and more terrible
than ever before... Professor Trelawney's prediction!

"Professor Dumbledore -- yesterday, when I was having my Divination
exam, Professor Trelawney went very -- very strange."

"Indeed?" said Dumbledore. "Er -- stranger than usual, you mean?"

"Yes... her voice went all deep and her eyes rolled and she said ... she
said Voldemort's servant was going to set out to return to him before
midnight.... She said the servant would help him come back to power."
Harry stared up at Dumbledore. "And then she sort of became normal
again, and she couldn't remember anything she'd said. Was it -- was she
making a real prediction?"

Dumbledore looked mildly impressed.

"Do you know, Harry, I think she might have been." he said thoughtfully.
"Who'd have thought it? That brings her total of real predictions up to
two. I should offer her a pay raise...."

"But --" Harry looked at him, aghast. How could Dumbledore take this so
calmly?

"But -- I stopped Sirius and Professor Lupin from killing Pettigrew!
That makes it my fault if Voldemort comes back!"

"It does not," said Dumbledore quietly. "Hasn't your experience with the
Time-Turner taught you anything, Harry? The consequences of our actions
are always so complicated, so diverse, that predicting the future is a
very difficult business indeed.... Professor Trelawney, bless her, is
living proof of that.... You did a very noble thing, in saving
Pettigrew's life."

"But if he helps Voldemort back to power

"Pettigrew owes his life to you. You have sent Voldemort a deputy who is
in your debt.... When one wizard saves another wizard's life, it creates
a certain bond between them... and I'm much mistaken if Voldemort wants
his servant in the debt of Harry Potter."

"I don't want a connection with Pettigrew!" said Harry. "He betrayed my
parents!"

"This is magic at its deepest, its most impenetrable, Harry. But trust
me... the time may come when you will be very glad you saved Pettigrew's
life."

Harry couldn't imagine when that would be. Dumbledore looked as though
he knew what Harry was thinking.

"I knew your father very well, both at Hogwarts and later, Harry," he
said gently. "He would have saved Pettigrew too, I am sure of it."

Harry looked up at him. Dumbledore wouldn't laugh -- he could tell
Dumbledore...

"I thought it was my dad who'd conjured my Patronus. I mean, when I saw
myself across the lake ... I thought I was seeing him." "An easy mistake
to make," said Dumbledore softly. "I expect you'll tire of hearing it,
but you do look extraordinarily like James. Except for the eyes... you
have your mother's eyes.

Harry shook his head.

"It was stupid, thinking it was him," he muttered. "I mean, I knew he
was dead."

"You think the dead we loved ever truly leave us? You think that we
don't recall them more clearly than ever in times of great trouble? Your
father is alive in you, Harry, and shows himself most plainly when you
have need of him. How else could you produce that particular Patronus?
Prongs rode again last night."

It took a moment for Harry to realize what Dumblefore had said.

Last night Sirius told me all about how they became Animagi," said
Dumbledore, smiling. "An extraordinary achievement -- not least, keeping
it quiet from me. And then I remembered the most unusual form your
Patronus took, when it charged Mr. Malfoy down at your Quidditch match
against Ravenclaw. You know, Harry, in a way, you did see your father
last night.... You found him inside yourself."

And Dumbledore left the office, leaving Harry to his very confused
thoughts.

Nobody at Hogwarts now knew the truth of what had happened the night
that Sirius, Buckbeak, and Pettigrew had vanished except Harry, Ron,
Hermione, and Professor Dumbledore. As the end of term approached, Harry
heard many different theories about what had really happened, but none
of them came close to the truth.

Malfoy was furious about Buckbeak. He was convinced that Hagrid had
found a way of smuggling the hippogriff to safety, and seemed outraged
that he and his father had been outwitted by a gamekeeper. Percy
Weasley, meanwhile, had much to say on the subject of Sirius's escape.

"If I manage to get into the Ministry, I'll have a lot of proposals to
make about Magical Law Enforcement!" he told the only person who would
listen -- his girlfriend, Penelope.

Though the weather was perfect, though the atmosphere was so

cheerful, though he knew they had achieved the near impossible in
helping Sirius to freedom, Harry had never approached the end of a
school year in worse spirits.

He certainly wasn't the only one who was sorry to see Professor Lupin
go. The whole of Harry's Defense Against the Dark Arts class was
miserable about his resignation.

"Wonder what they'll give us next year?" said Seamus Finnigan gloomily.

"Maybe a vampire," suggested Dean Thomas hopefully.

It wasn't only Professor Lupin's departure that was weighing on Harry's
mind. He couldn't help thinking a lot about Professor Trelawney's
prediction. He kept wondering where Pettigrew was now, whether he had
sought sanctuary with Voldemort yet. But the thing that was lowering
Harry's spirits most of all was the prospect of returning to the
Dursleys. For maybe half an hour, a glorious half hour, he had believed
he would be living with Sirius from now on... his parents' best
friend.... It would have been the next best thing to having his own
father back. And while no news of Sirius was definitely good news,
because it meant he had successfully gone into hiding, Harry couldn't
help feeling miserable when he thought of the home he might have had,
and the fact that it was now impossible.

The exam results came out on the last day of term. Harry, Ron, and
Hermione had passed every subject. Harry was amazed that he had got
through Potions. He had a shrewd suspicion that Dumbledore might have
stepped in to stop Snape failing him on purpose. Snape's behavior toward
Harry over the past week had been quite alarming. Harry wouldn't have
thought it possible that Snape's dislike for him could increase, but it
certainly had. A muscle twitched unpleasantly at the corner of Snape's
thin mouth every time he looked at Harry, and he was constantly flexing
his fingers, as though itching to place them around Harry's throat.

Percy had got his top-grade N.E.W.T.s; Fred and George had scraped a
handful of O.W.L.s each. Gryffindor House, meanwhile, largely thanks to
their spectacular performance in the Quidditch Cup, had won the House
championship for the third year running. This meant that the end of term
feast took place amid decorations of scarlet and gold, and that the
Gryffindor table was the noisiest of the lot, as everybody celebrated.
Even Harry managed to forget about the journey back to the Dursleys the
next day as he ate, drank, talked, and laughed with the rest.

As the Hogwarts Express pulled out of the station the next mornIng,
Hermione gave Harry and Ron some surprising news.

"I went to see Professor McGonagall this morning, just before breakfast.
I've decided to drop Muggle Studies."

"But you passed your exam with three hundred and twenty percent!" said
Ron.

"I know," sighed Hermione, "but I can't stand another year like this
one. That Time-Turner, it was driving me mad. I've handed it in. Without
Muggle Studies and Divination, I'll be able to have a normal schedule
again."

I still can't believe you didn't tell us about it," said Ron grumpily.
"We're supposed to be your friends."

"I promised I wouldn't tell anyone," said Hermione severely. She looked
around at Harry, who was watching Hogwarts disappear from view behind a
mountain. Two whole months before he'd see it again....

"Oh, cheer up, Harry!" said Hermione sadly.

"I'm okay," said Harry quickly. "Just thinking about the holidays."

"Yeah, I've been thinking about them too," said Ron. "Harry, you've got
to come and stay with us. I'll fix it up with Mum and Dad, then I'll
call you. I know how to use a fellytone now --"

"A telephone, Ron," said Hermione. "Honestly, you should take Muggle
Studies next year...."

Ron *ignored her.

"It's the Quidditch World Cup this summer! How about it, Harry? Come and
stay, and we'll go and see it! Dad can usually get tickets from work."

This proposal had the effect of cheering Harry up a great deal.

"Yeah... I bet the Dursleys'd be pleased to let me come... especially
after what I did to Aunt Marge...."

Feeling considerably more cheerful, Harry joined Ron and Hermione in
several games of Exploding Snap, and when the witch with the tea cart
arrived, he bought himself a very large lunch, though nothing with
chocolate in it.

But it was late in the afternoon before the thing that made him truly
happy turned up....

"Harry," said Hermione suddenly, peering over his shoulder. "What's that
thing outside your window?"

Harry turned to look outside. Something very small and gray was bobbing
in and out of sight beyond the glass. He stood up for a better look and
saw that it was a tiny owl, carrying a letter that was much too big for
it. The owl was so small, in fact, that it kept tumbling over in the
air, buffeted this way and that in the train's slipstream. Harry quickly
pulled down the window, stretched out his arm, and caught it. It felt
like a very fluffy Snitch. He brought it carefully inside. The owl
dropped its letter onto Harry's seat and began zooming around their
compartment, apparently very pleased with itself for accomplishing its
task. Hedwig clicked her beak with a sort of dignified disapproval.
Crookshanks sat up in his seat, following the owl with his great yellow
eyes. Ron, noticing this, snatched the owl safely out of harm's way.

Harry picked up the letter. It was addressed to him. He ripped open the
letter, and shouted, "It's from Sirius!"

"What?" said Ron and Hermione excitedly. "Read it aloud!"

Dear Harry,

I hope this finds you before you reach your aunt and uncle. I don't know
whether they're used to owl post.

Buckbeak and I are in hiding. I won't tell you where, in case this owl
falls into the wrong hands. I have some doubt about his reliability, but
he is the best I could find, and he did seem eager for the job.

I believe the dementors are still searching for me, but they haven't a
hope of finding me here. I am planning to allow some Muggles to glimpse
me soon, a long way from Hogwarts, so that the security on the castle
will be lifted.

There is something I never got around to telling you during our brief
meeting. It was I who sent you the Firebolt --

"Ha!" said Hermione triumphantly. "See! I told you it was from him!"

"Yes, but he hadn't jinxed it, had he?" said Ron. "Ouch!" The tiny owl,
now hooting happily in his hand, had nibbled one of his fingers in what
it seemed to think was an affectionate way.

Crookshanks took the order to the Owl Office for me. I used your name
but told them to take the gold from my own Gringotts vault. Please
consider it as thirteen birthdays' worth of presents from your
godfather.

I would also like to apologize for the fright I think I gave you that
night last year when you left your uncle's house. I had only hoped to
get a glimpse of you before starting my journey north, but I think the
sight of me alarmed you.

I am enclosing something else for you, which I think will make your next
year at Hogwarts more enjoyable.

If ever you need me, send word. Your owl will find me.

I'll write again soon.

Sirius

Harry looked eagerly inside the envelope. There was another piece of
parchment in there. He read it through quickly and felt suddenly as warm
and contented as though he'd swallowed a bottle of hot butterbeer in one
gulp.

I, Sirius Black, Harry Potter's godfather, hereby give him permission to
visit Hogsmeade on weekends.

"That'll be good enough for Dumbledore!" said Harry happily. He looked
back at Sirius's letter. "Hang on, there's a RS...."

I thought your ftiend Ron might like to keep this owl, as it's my fault
he no longer has a rat.

Ron's eyes widened. The minute owl was still hooting excitedly. "Keep
him?" he said uncertainly. He looked closely at the owl for a moment;
then, to Harry's and Hermione's great surprise, he held him out for
Crookshanks to sniff.

"What do you reckon?" Ron asked the cat. "Definitely an owl?"

Crookshanks purred.

"That's good enough for me," said Ron happily. "He's mine."

Harry read and reread the letter from Sirius all the way back into
King's Cross station. It was still clutched tightly in his hand as he,
Ron, and Hermione stepped back through the barrier of platform nine an('
three-quarters. Harry spotted Uncle Vernon at once. He was standing a
good distance from Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, eyeing them suspiciously, and
when Mrs. Weasley hugged Harry in greeting, his worst suspicions about
them seemed confirmed.

"I'll call about the World Cup!" Ron yelled after Harry as Harry bid him
and Hermione good-bye, then wheeled the trolley bearing his trunk and
Hedwig's cage toward Uncle Vernon, who greeted him in his usual fashion.

"What's that?" he snarled, staring at the envelope Harry was still
clutching in his hand. "If it's another form for me to sign, you've got
another ---"

"It's not," said Harry cheerfully. "It's a letter from my godfather."

"Godfather?" sputtered Uncle Vernon. "You haven't got a godfather!"

"Yes, I have," said Harry brightly. "He was my mum and dad's best
friend. He's a convicted murderer, but he's broken out of wizard prison
and he's on the run. He likes to keep in touch with me, though... keep
up with my news... check if I'm happy..."

And, grinning broadly at the look of horror on Uncle Vernon's face,
Harry set off toward the station exit, Hedwig rattling along in front of
him, for what looked like a much better summer than the last.

THE END
